Angus Ng Ka-long made history on Sunday after becoming the first home player to win the mens singles title at the US$400,000Yonex-Sunrise Hong Kong Open since its inauguration in 1982.
The 22-year-old, a former world junior doubles champion, picked up his first superseries title after holding off the challenge of Indias Sameer Verma, who has beaten Ng twice in the past at the world and Asian Junior Championships in 2012.
But Ng picked the perfect time to reverse the trend, winning 21-14, 10-21, 21-11, in front of a roaring 6,000 fans at the Coliseum in Hung Hom.
Former world number one Wang Chen, now a coach at the Sports Institute, lifted the womens singles title for Hong Kong in 2008.
I used to watch the Hong Kong Open when I was a little kid and dreamed of one day being part of it in the future, said Ng, who started formal training at the Sports Institute 10 years ago.
I am so happy it has come true. Winning the Hong Kong Open is a big moment in my career.
In fact, someone was joking to me before asking if I would like to win the All England or the home tournament. I had no hesitation in saying the Hong Kong Open because it would be in front of the home crowds, which is important to the sport here.
Ng had already made a breakthrough for Hong Kong 12 months ago when he became the first local player to reach the semi-finals, beating two-time Olympic champion Lin Dan, of China, on the way before falling to Malaysias eventual champion Lee Chong Wei.
Returning to the same venue one year later, Ng cut a more resolute and confident figure, reaching his third superseries semi-final this year.
Ng said his two previous losses to Verma played on his mind before the final.
I feared it might be the same result, he said. But once the match started, I didnt think too much about it.
I wasnt even thinking about creating another milestone for Hong Kong badminton, I was simply focused on the game.
Today, the wind was a bit tricky but after the score was levelled at 1-1, I tried to be more aggressive and my strategy worked.
Ng has already qualified for the superseries finals in Dubai next month, when the top eight players and pairs in all five events after 12 legs battle it out for supremacy.
My next target will be the Dubai finals and hopefully I can reach the semi-finals, but in a long term, I want to reach the worlds top five and make regular appearances in the big tournaments and win them, said Ng, currently ranked 14 in the world after reaching a high of ninth earlier this year.
He also qualified for the Rio Olympics but was beaten by Son Wan-ho, of South Korea, in the round of 16.
Tai Tzu-ying, of Taiwan, enjoyed a double celebration after clinching the womens singles title.
Her 21-15, 21-17 victory over Pusala V. Sindhu of Indianot only was sweet revenge after losing to the same opponent at the Olympic Games this summer but also took her to the top of the world rankings, overtaking Rio champion Carolina Marin, of Spain.
It was also Tais second Hong Kong Open title after winning in 2014 when she defeated Nozomi Okuhara of Japan.
Denmarks Kamilla Rytter Juhl and Christina Pedersen of Denmark beatHuang Dongping and Li Yinhui 21-19, 21-10 in the womens doubles final,completinga poor tournament for world powerhouses China.
It meant China leave Hong Kong with zero titles, following the China Open the previous week when they reached four finals but lost them all. In Hong Kong, they only reached the womens doubles final.
In the mixed doubles, Indonesians Tontowi Ahmad and Liliyana Natsir, the Rio Olympic Games gold medallists, beat compatriots Praveen Jordan and Debby Susanto 21-19, 21-17 in the final.
In the mens doubles, Japans Takeshi Kamura and Keigo Sonoda won the title by beating Denmarks Mathias Boe and Carsten Mogensen 21-91, 21-19.