Taylor brought up his 16th Test century. Getty Ross Taylor's defiant century (101 not out) laid the platform for New Zealand to build a commanding lead of 368 before they declared in the second Test against Pakistan in Hamilton on Monday (November 28). Pakistan's openers waded through the three overs before the close of play and were 1/0, still 368 runs adrift of posting an unlikely win.Taylor would be a relieved man as the seasoned campaigner has been struggling with pterygium - a growth that develops on the conjunctiva or mucous membrane that covers the white part of the eye. Tom Latham, too, composed a well-constructed 80 as the hosts dominated proceedings on Day 4.At the start of the final session, the home side was already in the ascendancy with a sizeable lead of 236. Taylor, who had his fair share of luck in the second session, batted with more assurance. The crux of Taylor's batting effort in the post-Tea session was that he waited for the ball to come to him and played mostly under his eye-line. He soon reached his fifty.Taylor also allowed Henry Nicholls, to take over as the dominant partner. However, after sharing a stand of 60 for the fifth wicket, Nicholls fell to Imran Khan. He tried to slash the seamer, but could only eke out an edge to the wicketkeeper.After a rather sketchy innings of 32, Colin Grandhomme was removed by the impressive Imran. However, by then, the damage had been done. With Pakistan's pacers looking deflated, Taylor opened up his shoulders to check in a flurry of shots as he raced his way to a superlative century. He reached the landmark in style with a cut shot.New Zealand had commenced Day 4 with just 55 runs in front. For a while, it turned into an absorbing battle between bat and ball. Mohammad Amir and Sohail Khan bowled four maiden overs in a row to test the home side's patience. The strategy worked as Amir trapped Jeet Raval in front with the one that nipped back off the seam at good pace to beat the defensive prod.Latham and Williamson (42), however, batted without theatrics to give New Zealand the ascendancy. For the most part of the session, Williamson and Latham were intent on defending the good deliveries. It was only after the Tea break that Imran pounded life out of the deck to induce the outside edge and snuff out Williamson.Taylor and Latham then upped the ante with an enterprising stand of 52. The 24-year-old Canterbury opener largely played with an uncluttered mind. He initially wore down Pakistan's attack before he started to accumulate runs. After he reached his 11th Test fifty, Latham expanded his game by cracking cuts and whips.Latham also manoeuvred the field expertly with a tuck here and a nudge there. However, it was his steady defence that stood out. Sohail and Wahab Riaz troubled the left-hander to an extent at the fag end of the session and the latter was rewarded with the prized scalp of Latham.With New Zealand 1-0 up in the series, they have tightened their grip on clinching the two-match rubber. Pakistan, on the other hand, look set to lose their proud record of not having lost a Test series against New Zealand since 1985.Brief scores: New Zealand 271 and 313/5 decl. (Ross Taylor 102*, Tom Latham 80; Imran Khan 3-76) lead Pakistan 216 (Babar Azam 90*, Sarfraz Ahmed 41; Tim Southee 6-80, Neil Wagner 3-59) and 1/0 by 368 runs.