By: Express Web Desk | 		
										
								 Published:November 28, 2016 5:48 pm
								
								
												
												
												
											 R Ashwin ended Day 3 in Mohali with figures of 3/19. (Express Photo by Kamleshwar Singh)
Indias three lower order batsmen put together 210 runs to give India a massive advantage and the lead to give themselves some breathing room after middle order collapse a day prior. On Day 3 in the third Test between India and England, the advantage was back in Indias favour with the tail making a major difference to this contest.
Indias No 7, No 8 and No 9 batsmen, all scored half centuries in Mohali to give the hosts a lead of 134 runs after they trailed by 12 at stumps on Day 2.
R Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja proceeded from 271/6 in the morning andthe previous was gone soon after restart to Ben Stokes having scored an extremely crucial 72.
This brought Jayant Yadav to the crease who had already made a mark with the bat with scores of 35 and 27 in the Vizag Test. And the two spinners went about adding to Indias lead and inflated it to a good margin when lunch was called for.
But Jadejadeparted for 90 as he went for a big hit during aperiod of aggressive batting and was holed out at longon with Adil Rashid picking up the wicket. They put together 80 runs for the eighth wicket.
Soon enough, Jayant helped createrecord for India when he brought about his maiden fifty. Partnering Umesh Yadav, Jayant added some vital runs andhelped fatten the lead.
With Umesh Yadavs wicket, England had finally managed to end Indias inning at 417.
In reply, England were already on the backfoot with Haseeb Hameed unable to open due to a finger injury that, despite the long hours in the nets, hecouldnt shrug off. It resulted in Alastair Cook and Joe Root opening for the visitors.
And Cook survived multiple loud appealsfor leg before including two DRS reviews. Eventually he was bowled by an Ashwin beauty that saw his off stump toppled when the ball straightened after pitching on the middle stump.
Next up to come into the middle was Moeen Ali but his staywas shortlived after playing a poor shot that resulted in a simple catch at mid-on to Jayant.
Jonny Bairstow and Root steadied the England response with 31 runs together. However Bairstow exited on 15 after a Jayant ball stayed low, caught the bottom edge and was beautifully taken by Parthiv Patel who saw the ball till the end.
Before stumps, England were further jolted by the wicket of Ben Stokes. Pitching middle and off by Ashwin, the England batsman was square up and caught pad first. Where the decision by the on-field umpire was a not out and many Indian players looking unconvinced too, Ashwin showed the confidence in asking for a review and was duly rewarded for it.
What a day for India.
As good as it gets. And on a pitch which is so much better than the one against SA.#IndvEng
 Mohammad Kaif (@MohammadKaif) November 28, 2016
Cook has been out bowled six times in his last 9 Tests; as many times as he was bowled in 74 Tests from July 2006 to June 2012. #INDvENG
 Andy Zaltzman (@ZaltzCricket) November 28, 2016
Waiting for Bhajji to say that he didnt get ample opportunities or else he would have scored more Test runs than Ashwin #INDvENG
 Cricket Bakchod (@AllTimeBakchod) 28 November 2016
colleague @jhayash has a new version now
DRS Doubts Remain System
 Gaurav Kalra (@gauravkalra75) 28 November 2016
Jayant is playing only his second Test but has the presence of someone whos played 20. Assured with both bat and ball. #INDvENG
 Aakash Chopra (@cricketaakash) November 28, 2016
Most runs in a year by a keeper an now most Dismissals by a keeper in a Calender year !! Well done son @jbairstow21 big hugs x
 Ryan Sidebottom (@RyanSidebottom) 28 November 2016
One of two possibilities 1- the nail is chipped. Only intensive filing can save it. 2- the finger has fallen off. And dropped down the loo. http://t.co/BdUgOLkuax
 Graeme Swann (@Swannyg66) 28 November 2016
At close of play, England were 78/4 and still trailed by 56 runs.
 The Indian Express Online Media Pvt Ltd