Written by Mir Ehsan
							 | Srinagar | 		
										
								 Published:November 22, 2016 8:52 pm
								
								
												
												
												
											 While the Army did not give out details, sources said this seemed to be the handiwork of a Pakistani Border Action Team that had crossed the LoC. (File photo)
Sharply escalating the situation on the Line of Control (LoC), three Indian soldiers were killed and the body of one of them was mutilated Tuesday in the Machil sector of Kupwara district in north Kashmir, an incident that infuriated the Army which promised retribution will be heavy for this cowardly act. It is learnt that these three soldiers of 57 Rashtriya Rifles were at the head of a link patrol, and were at a distance from the rest of the group when they were killed. The killings took place on the Indian side of the LoC and was accompanied by heavy firing from Pakistani posts.
WATCH VIDEO:JK: 3 Soldiers Killed, Body Of One Mutilated In Machhal Sector
		
	
While the Army did not give out details, sources said this seemed to be the handiwork of a Pakistani Border Action Team that had crossed the LoC. It is believed that after carrying out the attack around 1 pm, the team slipped back into Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK).
In Delhi, Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar was briefed on the incident by Vice Chief of Army Staff Lt General Bipin Rawat. Army chief General Dalbir Singh is on a four-day visit to China. Ever since India announced on September 29 that it had carried out surgical strikes on terror launch pads along the LoC, troops on either side have been trading fire daily. Thirteen Indian soldiers have died so far.
This is the second attack on the Army in less than a month in the same sector. On October 29, Mandeep Singh, a soldier serving with the 17 Sikh Regiment, was killed and then beheaded while out on patrol ahead of Kala Post, one of several Indian forward positions in the Machil sector, in the midst of small arms and mortar fire.
Singhs patrol was sent to foil an infiltration bid which was being aided by Pakistani troops who had directed fire on Dana, Khan Basti and Tantray Basti, an arc of villages near the mouth of a mountain stream that leads up from the Neelum river on to the dense forests of Kalaroos.
The area where the attack took place Tuesday is close to the Manigah forests. In the Machil sector, Indian and Pakistani bunkers are not too far away from each other and there have been several ceasefire violations in the last two months.
 The Indian Express Online Media Pvt Ltd