JK High Court Bar Association (HCBA) today denounced the five year ban imposed on Islamic scholar Dr Zakir Naiks Islamic Research Foundation (IRF) and raids on his academic institutions, terming it undemocratic, arbitrary and mala-fide.
The sole purpose of it is to victimize and punish Dr Zakir Naik for propagating and preaching Islam, a spokesman of the HCBA, in a statement today, said.
The Bar Association wants to make it clear that there are thousands of schools, colleges and universities run by Hindu fundamentalists who are spreading venom not only against the Muslims of India, but also of the world but never ever has any action been taken against them by the central government or any state government. It is only Dr Zakir Naiks institutions which have been all along the target of central and state governments and its security agencies only because he is a Muslim and he preaches Islam. It is not only that his institutions have been banned for five years but thousands of students reading in those institutions have virtually been prevented from pursuing their studies in those schools thereby ruining their career, the spokesman said.
The spokesman said, Several BJP leaders and their activists have all along been making outrageous statements against the Muslims and they have even described the masjids and churches as mere buildings and not religious places and have openly stated that these masjids can be demolished at any time, but no action has been taken against them by the central or state government only because they belong to a particular religious group. These people have even gone to the extent of saying that if an illegal Muslim immigrant was ready to convert to Hinduism he could be allowed to stay in India. They have not only pronounced but actually followed the policy of Gharwapsi and have lured hundreds of Muslims to convert back to Hinduism. No proceedings have however been initiated against them by any government. Their attempts to convert Muslims back to Hinduism have been appreciated and encouraged by other Hindu organizations.
Dr Zakir Naik, who has all along maintained that he is for peace and does not want to create communal hatred or disharmony, has however been singled out for prosecution by the Indian government and its agencies, the spokesman said.
Meanwhile, Bar has condemned the killing of two militants at Bandipora and Rayees Ahmad Dar of Kakapora. Bar also expressed sorrow over the demise Muneer Ahmad of Samba, whose father had to take him to a hospital, 50 km away from his home, by foot, as nobody accepted a 1000 old currency note from him. The Bar Association condemned the arrest and detention of Mir Hafeezullah of Anantnag, who was arrested by police in civvies after firing in air, Tahir Ahmad Mir of Bandipora, terming these arrests as illegal and unlawful.