more videosWatch latest videos from THE TIMES of INDIALoading latest videos...Anvit Srivastava | TNN | Updated: Nov 23, 2016, 12.17 AM IST
 New Delhi: An Afghan woman was caught at the Indira Gandhi International Airport on Monday for carrying more than Rs 9 lakh in denomination of Rs 1000.
 
 
 Customs officers said that the woman, who is a trader and works in Kabul, said that she was suffering heavy losses in business following the demonetisation move by the Modi government. She said that she wanted to exchange the banned notes and take back valid currency to revive her business.
 
 
 Senior customs officers said that based on intelligence inputs the woman was intercepted at the green channel as soon as she arrived at IGI from Kabul, by flight 4Q 243, and asked to go through a personal checking and baggage scanning.
 
 
 During frisking, it was found that she was hiding 10 bundles of Rs 1000 notes in her clothes. She had sewed in the currency Rs 9.63 lakh in the inside pockets. When she was asked about the source of money, she said that she was a trader from Kabul and had come to exchange the notes, said a senior officer.
 
 
 She said that in Kabul Indian currency was also accepted for trading. However, after demonetisation people stopped accepting these notes. The woman was detained for questioning and the concerned authorities were informed, the officer added.
 
 
 Meanwhile, on Tuesday CISF personnel caught an Afghan man who was allegedly trying to fly out of the country with $41,500 (Rs 28.4 lakh) from IGI airport.
 
 
 
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.RELATEDDefamation not a tool for mighty to browbeat citizens: CourtDelhi deputy CM Sisodia detained while leading protest march to ParliamentCant portray reality by bypassing reality; our censorship laws archaic: Sharmila TagoreWidening of NH-24 hits another hurdleCentral Pollution Control Board readies action plan to fight bad airMake Najeeb case report public: JNUSUDU to firm up role of industry in researchWhen Delhi put its running shoes and masks on