more videosWatch latest videos from THE TIMES of INDIALoading latest videos...Pervez Siddiqui | TNN | Nov 23, 2016, 01.26 AM IST
 Lucknow: Samajwadi Party chief Mulayam Singh Yadav will begin his election campaign from Quami Ekta Dal (QED) leader Mukthar Ansari's stronghold when he addresses a rally in Ghazipur on Wednesday.
 
 
 However, it is not clear whether chief minister Akhilesh Yadav, who had opposed a merger with QED, will attend the rally. Ghazipur administration said they had not received any official communication till Tuesday evening regarding CM's visit to the district.
 
 
 The rally is being seen as a litmus test for state SP president Shivpal Yadav, who engineered QED's merger with the SP. Shivpal reached Ghazipur on Tuesday to oversee the arrangements. Several SP ministers and MLAs, too, were camping in the district to supervise the preparations.
 
 
 QED's merger with the SP, which was announced by Shivpal on June 21, was the first sign of rift in the SP Pariwar as Akhilesh openly opposed it saying people like Mukhtar Ansari were not welcome in the party. Three days later, SP's parliamentary board quashed the merger following objections from Akhilesh and SP general secretary Ram Gopal Yadav. But later Mulayam gave his nod to the merger even though there was no formal announcement from the SP camp.
 
 
 QED had set up huge hoardings at Samajwadi Party's silver jubilee celebrations in which Ansari brothers -- Mukhtar and Afzal -- were mentioned as SP leaders.
 
 
 It is not our rally. It is an event of the Samajwadi Party but we will ensure that the rally is bigger than that of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's rally held at the same venue earlier this month, said QED president and Mukhtar's brother Afzal Ansari.
 
 
 Sources confirmed that Ram Gopal Yadav will not attend the rally as he is busy with the ongoing winter session of Parliament. SP leaders said it's the rally of Mulayam Singh Yadav and not a party convention where presence of all leaders was mandatory.
 
 
 
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.RELATEDWill Yadav family take the fast lane to reunion?UPs first non-Congress CM was also first to give quota to backwardBBAU students to champion cause of gender equalityKGMUs Trauma-2 to start ventilatory unit from DecemberBA student ends life after spat with motherICSE syllabus from pre-school onwardsLMRC unloads metro coaches, ready to have trial runs by December 1Indore-Patna Express derailment: Uttar Pradesh police's tweet creates most impact