more videosWatch latest videos from THE TIMES of INDIALoading latest videos...Sandeep Rai | TNN | Nov 22, 2016, 10.05 PM ISTMeerut: A day after Brahmpal Kashyap, key witness in the Kairana gang rape and murder case, was shot dead by a group of assailants, there was simmering tension in the west UP town that hit headlines after local BJP MP Hukum Singh said there was exodusof Hindus from the region due to a variety of reasons. The district administration tightened security on Tuesday, with more force deployed in Akbarpur Sunheti, the site of the murder. This came even as Hukum Singh reached the village on Tuesday to attend the cremation of Kashyap, raising communal tempers with a high pitched speech that he gave from a temple in the area. Addressing a gathering of villagers, Hukum Singh said, These demons have claimed yet another life but you need not leave this village out of fear as I am with you. You have to stand firm and fight them. The superintendent of police seems to be a good man and he has assured me that the probe will be just and fair. The MP had specially gone to Kairana, skipping the ongoing parliamentary session. He returned to Delhi the same evening. Village pradhan Dawood Ahmad rued that while Hukum Singh spoke of retribution, not once did he talk about maintaining communal harmony. Politics is being played over the murder. The truth is that Brahmpal was very close to me and we were like brothers. It has become a habit of these leaders to blame us for all wrongs. Reacting to the names of the accused in the FIR, Ahmad asked, The incident happened at 1.30am, as is being claimed. The first call to police was made at 5.30 am. How come six names of accused were included in the FIR when no one saw who murdered Brahmpal? A crime is being unnecessarily communalised. Ajay Pal Sharma, SP at Shamli, said, We have increased police presence, but the situation is completely in control, We have also arrested one person in this connection and will certainly nab the rest. The gang rape and murder, which happened on April 4, had been highlighted by Hukum Singh from various forums. Later, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) mentioned the shoddiness of police investigation in this case in its September 21 report on the alleged exodus of Hindu families from Kairana.Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.RELATEDVehicle-thief arrested while in possession of five cars worth Rs 45 lakhSoon, UPSRTC bus drivers, conductors to get uniformsSilver lining for sugar industry? Mills pay off Rs 52 cr in a dayMeeruts famous scissors industry stares at 100% shutdownNow, SBI cash vans provide relief of Rs 1,000 to ATM card owners at vantage pointsFarmers to get Rs 50k subsidy for digging pondsRise in crime in city, says mayorWho will beat drums if theres no happiness in country?Bus drivers asked to pick max passengers in winter