more videosWatch latest videos from THE TIMES of INDIALoading latest videos...TNN | Updated: Nov 23, 2016, 12.20 AM IST
 New Delhi: A three-year-old girl was sexually assaulted by a neighbour, who then dumped her in a pit along the railway tracks at Sarai Rohilla in north Delhi on Monday night. The girl survived the ordeal, lying in the cold for nearly nine hours before being found early on Tuesday morning. The accused, who was arrested soon after, has confessed to the crime. The girl has been admitted to a government hospital where she is being treated for her injuries.
 
 
 A case under Section 363 (kidnapping), 307 (attempt to murder), 376 (rape) and some provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences has been registered at Sarai Rohilla police station on the basis of the survivor's statement, said Madhur Verma, DCP (North).
 
 
 The girl's father, who is a co-worker of Birbal, the accused, at a scrap godown, called the police control room around 9pm on Monday. The two daughters had left home around 7.30pm to play in the lane outside their house in Harijan Basti and the younger one had gone missing.
 
 
 After registering a case of kidnapping, the police team searched for the girl in the locality for nearly two hours.
 
 
 It was only later, when the elder daughter who suffers from dyslexia, kept talking about Birbal that the police were given this information. The cops found Birbal asleep in his home. On being questioned, Birbal initially denied any knowledge about the girl, but eventually admitted to having left the child at a stretch near the railway line. He, however, could not give the coordinates of the exact spot where he had left her, pleading that he had been intoxicated at the time.
 
 
 Around 4am, a woman factory worker who had gone to relieve herself near the railway line, heard the girl's call for help. She alerted the police team searching for the girl. The child was taken to Bara Hindu Rao Hospital, where doctors confirmed sexual assault.
 
 
 She had injuries on various parts of her body as well as strangulation marks on her neck. She will be kept for observation in the hospital for a few days. While being counselled by a police officer, the child disclosed that Birbal had taken her to the spot and made her sit on his lap. After sexually assaulting her, he had attempted to strangle her and then left her behind believing she had died.
 
 
 
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.RELATEDSIT questions Sajjan Kumar over 1984 riotsAfghan woman held with Rs 9 lakh in old notesDefamation not a tool for mighty to browbeat citizens: CourtDelhi deputy CM Sisodia detained while leading protest march to ParliamentCant portray reality by bypassing reality; our censorship laws archaic: Sharmila TagoreWidening of NH-24 hits another hurdleCentral Pollution Control Board readies action plan to fight bad airMake Najeeb case report public: JNUSUDU to firm up role of industry in research