Reacting to the PMs jibe, Sena President Uddhav Thackeray said in Mumbai: If he has said that, then I have to thank him for respecting Balasaheb. However, there are issues related to the common man and that needs to be answered. If the common mans issues are resolved then they would thank you, and even Balasaheb would be happy. MUMBAI: Shiv Sena MPs received a cold reception when they went to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi over currency recall in New Delhi on Tuesday. NDA ally Sena wants the government to let district central cooperative banks accept the recalled currency notes. In a meeting that lasted for barely 10 minutes, the Prime Minister invoked late Sena chief Bal Thackeray to drive his message home. After I die, when I go up and meet Bal Thackeray, I will be able to tell him that I have done something for the common man, Modi appears to have told the Shiv Sena delegation. Rubbing it further, the Prime Minister said: I dont know whether you would be able to do the same. Modi also made light of alliance partners pressure tactics to join hands with West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on the note ban issue. Banerjee had roped in BJPs ally Sena for her march to Rashtrapati Bhavan against the NDA governments demonetisation drive. Modi apparently told the Sena MPs that they can complain as much as they want but in the end you will be with us. The details of the meeting were confirmed by Sena MPs on condition of anonymity. Reacting to the PMs jibe, Sena President Uddhav Thackeray said in Mumbai: If he has said that, then I have to thank him for respecting Balasaheb. However, there are issues related to the common man and that needs to be answered. If the common mans issues are resolved then they would thank you, and even Balasaheb would be happy. He then slammed BJP for teaching nationalism to the common man. There is no need to teach nationalism to those standing in que to withdraw their own money. Dont apply your standards of nationalism to them. All their sweat and hard work goes for the development of the country. Threatening to up the ante, the Sena chief said he had still not taken an aggressive step and he should not be forced to take that step. Despite an aggressive posturing from the Sena chief, there are signals that the party may go slow on its opposition to the currency recall following the PMs plain speak. 
Follow this section for latest news on Politics and NationEmailRSSHave something to say? Post your commentReacting to the PMs jibe, Sena President Uddhav Thackeray said in Mumbai: If he has said that, then I have to thank him for respecting Balasaheb. However, there are issues related to the common man and that needs to be answered. If the common mans issues are resolved then they would thank you, and even Balasaheb would be happy. MUMBAI: Shiv Sena MPs received a cold reception when they went to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi over currency recall in New Delhi on Tuesday. NDA ally Sena wants the government to let district central cooperative banks accept the recalled currency notes. In a meeting that lasted for barely 10 minutes, the Prime Minister invoked late Sena chief Bal Thackeray to drive his message home. After I die, when I go up and meet Bal Thackeray, I will be able to tell him that I have done something for the common man, Modi appears to have told the Shiv Sena delegation. Rubbing it further, the Prime Minister said: I dont know whether you would be able to do the same. Modi also made light of alliance partners pressure tactics to join hands with West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on the note ban issue. Banerjee had roped in BJPs ally Sena for her march to Rashtrapati Bhavan against the NDA governments demonetisation drive. Modi apparently told the Sena MPs that they can complain as much as they want but in the end you will be with us. The details of the meeting were confirmed by Sena MPs on condition of anonymity. Reacting to the PMs jibe, Sena President Uddhav Thackeray said in Mumbai: If he has said that, then I have to thank him for respecting Balasaheb. However, there are issues related to the common man and that needs to be answered. If the common mans issues are resolved then they would thank you, and even Balasaheb would be happy. He then slammed BJP for teaching nationalism to the common man. There is no need to teach nationalism to those standing in que to withdraw their own money. Dont apply your standards of nationalism to them. All their sweat and hard work goes for the development of the country. Threatening to up the ante, the Sena chief said he had still not taken an aggressive step and he should not be forced to take that step. Despite an aggressive posturing from the Sena chief, there are signals that the party may go slow on its opposition to the currency recall following the PMs plain speak.