more videosWatch latest videos from THE TIMES of INDIALoading latest videos...TNN | Updated: Nov 23, 2016, 12.00 AM IST
 Mumbai: Prime Minister Narendra Modi has reportedly snubbed the Shiv Sena on the demonetisation issue. He asked Sena MPs, who called on him in New Delhi on Tuesday, how would they face Bal Thackeray in heaven after opposing the Centre's move to scrap Rs 1,000 and Rs 500 notes.
 
 
 When you all go up, what will you tell Balasaheb? That you opposed Modi's demonetisation drive which was meant to flush out black money? In that case, will you have any face to show him? Modi was quoted as saying by Sena sources. The Sena MPs, who had sought an appointment with Modi to discuss the cash crunch faced by rural cooperative banks and its cascading effect on agriculture, were taken aback by the PM's unusual piece of advice. Our MPs were in for a shock. They thought he would be willing to discuss the pros and cons of demonetisation and accept suggestions from them on how to cope with the crisis accentuated by long, serpentine queues before ATMs and banks, said a senior Sena functionary.
 
 
 Modi's strong words reflect his distress over the Sena teaming up with the Trinamool Congress to oppose the cancellation of Rs 1,000 and Rs 500 notes. The Sena joined the Mamata Banerjee-led protest march to Rashtrapati Bhavan last week. However, following the dressing down from Modi, the party may keep away from the Trinamool Congress' next round of protest, party sources said.
 
 
 Asked if the Sena would join the anti-demonetisation protest, senior party leader and MP Sanjay Raut, speaking informally to mediapersons in New Delhi after meeting Modi, said, Let's see. We will decide in due course of time. There is no hurry.
 
 
 Earlier, Modi told the Sena delegation that the demonetisation drive was in the larger national interest. When I go up, I will tell Balasaheb with my head held high that my decision was to improve the lot of the common citizens of India. Now, it's up to youyou decide if you want to oppose my drive or support it, he said.
 
 
 This is for the first time since his November 8 decision to ban high currency notes that Modi has come out openly against the Sena, which has been spewing venom against demonetisation. In a recent leader comment, Saamna likened demonetisation to the Jallianwalla Baug massacre, sparking outrage among the BJP rank and file in the state.
 
 
 Modi further said being the BJP's longest standing partner in the NDA, the Sena will have to be on the Centre's side on the demonetisation issue. You will have to be with us. This is the only way out for you, he added. This, said political experts, is a veiled warning to Matoshree to scale down its opposition on the issue.
 
 
 Thanking the PM for remembering the late Bal Thackeray, party chief Uddhav Thackeray said, We want a satisfactory and convincing answer from the PM on how he will provide relief to harassed citizens who have to stand in long queues to claim their hard-earned money. Thackeray, who was talking to mediapersons at his Bandra residence, refrained from attacking Modi.
 
 
 Meanwhile, Union minister Nitin Gadkari called on Thackeray at Matoshree on Tuesday. I have come to invite Uddhavji for the wedding reception of my daughter. There was no political discussion between us, he told mediapersons. Gadkari later visited MNS president Raj Thackeray at his Shivaji Park residence.
 
 
 
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.RELATEDIIT-JEE (Advanced) exams to be held in six foreign countriesJEE (Main) to be held on April 2; register by Jan 2Life skills not taught in classrooms: SurveyNo service charge on IRCTC websiteFree parking at airport till MonCouple cheats 90 tenants, flees with Rs 3crHold events on noise hazards, schools toldCash crunch not to affect mass marriageTask force to fight obesity in schoolkids