Coming down heavily on SAD and AAP for misleading the youth, he said, First the Badal-led Akali government destroyed lives of tens of thousands youth of Punjab by spreading drug addiction, and now Kejriwal has come to crush their spirit by suggesting they would sell their precious votes for drugs. NEW DELHI: Controversial meat exporter Moin Qureshi was questioned by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on his return to India on Tuesday. ED is probing Qureshis role in a money laundering case and has issued a lookout circular. However, Qureshi hoodwinking immigrations authorities managed to leave India in October this year leaving the authorities red faced. Nearly a month later, he arrived at the Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA) last night after wh i ch ED sleuths served him a court-issued directive to present himself before the agency today. The Delhi HC, while hearing a plea filed by Qureshi, had last month directed him to return by mid-November and appear before the agency for questioning in this case. 
Follow this section for latest news on Politics and NationEmailRSSHave something to say? Post your commentComing down heavily on SAD and AAP for misleading the youth, he said, First the Badal-led Akali government destroyed lives of tens of thousands youth of Punjab by spreading drug addiction, and now Kejriwal has come to crush their spirit by suggesting they would sell their precious votes for drugs. NEW DELHI: Controversial meat exporter Moin Qureshi was questioned by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on his return to India on Tuesday. ED is probing Qureshis role in a money laundering case and has issued a lookout circular. However, Qureshi hoodwinking immigrations authorities managed to leave India in October this year leaving the authorities red faced. Nearly a month later, he arrived at the Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA) last night after wh i ch ED sleuths served him a court-issued directive to present himself before the agency today. The Delhi HC, while hearing a plea filed by Qureshi, had last month directed him to return by mid-November and appear before the agency for questioning in this case.