more videosWatch latest videos from THE TIMES of INDIAB Sivakumar, K Sambath Kumar L SaravananAIADMK candidates M Rengasamy, V Senthil Balaji and A K Bose won elections in Thanjavur, Aravakurichi and Thiruparankundram assembly constituencies in Tamil Nadu. | TNN | Updated: Nov 22, 2016, 05.12 PM IST
 CHENNAI: AIADMK candidates M Rengasamy, V Senthil Balaji and A K Bose won elections in Thanjavur, Aravakurichi and Thiruparankundram assembly constituencies in Tamil Nadu.
 
 
 Polling was held on November 19, and votes were counted on Tuesday.
 
 
 In Thanjavur, Rengasamy defeated Anjugam Bhoopathi of DMK by a margin of 26,874 votes. Rengasamy polled 101362 votes while Bhoopathi got 74488 votes. As many as 2,295 people opted for Nota (none of the above). There were a total of 14 candidates in Thanjavur.
 
 
 In Aravakurichi, former minister Senthil Balaji beat K C Palanisamy of DMK by a margin of 23,673 votes. Balaji secured 88, 068 votes while Palanisamy of DMK got 64,395 votes. As many as 1,538 people opted for Nota. There were a total of 39 candidates in Aravakurichi.
 
 
 In Thiruparankundram, A K Bose defeated P Saravanan of DMK by a margin of 42,670 votes. Bose polled 113,032 votes while Saravanan got 70,362 votes and 2,214 people opted for Nota. There were 28 candidates in the fray.
 
 
 With the win in the three constituencies, AIADMK's strength has gone up to 136 in the 234-member assembly.
 
 
 The elections in Thanjavur and Aravakurichi were held after the Election Commission of India rescinded the polls in May in the wake of large scale bribing of voters by political parties. The bypoll in Thiruparankundram constituency was necessitated as S M Seenivel of AIADMK died before taking oath as a member of the assembly after the May 16 election.
 
 
 Reacting to the election results, DMK treasurer and leader of the opposition M K Stalin said AIADMK ministers had influenced the voters with money power which the Election Commission could not control. He said, DMK has made it a practice to accept election results in a democratic way. We will continue to serve the people in Tamil Nadu.
 
 
 PMK chief S Ramadoss said money power had won again in the state. Both Dravidian parties (AIADMK and DMK) have used money to woo voters, he said.
 
 
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.RELATEDMadurai-bound Pandian Express train delayed for five hoursAIADMK candidates leading in all three TN constituenciesCounting of votes in three TN constituencies, one Puducherry constituency beginsCongress in overhaul mode; region meet from todayKudankulam Unit II to go critical on MondayFlat promoter encroaches on marshland, lays road to buildingAll courts across Tamil Nadu to get CCTVsActors' body meet: Court seeks replyUniversities handhold Class 12 students