more videosWatch latest videos from THE TIMES of INDIALoading latest videos...Railways today suspended five senior officials and transferred Jhansi Divisional Manager (DRM) as the probe into the Indore-Patna Express accident gained momentum, with blood samples of the two drivers sent for alcohol test.PTI | Updated: Nov 22, 2016, 09.51 PM ISTRailways suspends five senior officials and transfers Jhansi Divisional Manager.The probe into the Indore-Patna Express accident gains momentum.The death toll in Sunday's accident rises to 150.FILE: Rescue workers search for survivors at the site of Sunday's train derailment in Pukhrayan, south of Kanp... Read More
 KANPUR: Railways on Tuesday suspended five senior officials and transferred Jhansi Divisional Manager (DRM) as the probe into the
 
 Indore-Patna Express
 
 accident gained momentum, with blood samples of the two drivers sent for alcohol test.
 
 
 The death toll in
 
 Sunday's accident
 
 rose to 150, making it the deadliest train accident in the last 17 years with four more persons, including a 12-year-old boy, succumbing to their injuries.
 
 
 Senior Divisional Mechanical Engineer (Carriage and wagon) Navaid Talib, Divisional Engineer M K Mishra, Senior Section Engineer Ambika Ojha, Section Engineer Iswar Das and Senior Section Engineer Sushil Kumar Gupta were suspended for dereliction of duty while DRM of Jhansi Division S K Aggarwal was transferred.
 
 
 While Jhansi DRM was transferred to Ranchi, the five officials were suspended pending inquiry.
 
 
 It was very necessary to take action to fix responsibility. Suspension and transfer order was issued pending inquiry being conducted by the Commissioner Railway Safety (CRS), said a senior Railway Ministry official.
 
 
 Meanwhile, Railway Safety Commissioner P K Acharya said blood samples of the two drivers of the train have been sent to a lab to ascertain if they were in an inebriated condition that could have caused the deadly derailment.
 
 
 Blood samples of both the drivers have been sent to a laboratory for tests. I can make further comments once the laboratory sends the reports, he said replying to questions on whether the drivers were under the influence of alcohol.
 
 
 Acharya, who is probing the accident and had inspected the site on Monday, said it may take about two-three days to complete the inquiry and the report will be submitted to the government in a month's time.
 
 
 The statements of the driver, the assistant driver, a police inspector and a few other people have been recorded, he said, adding that this is first round of questioning and there will be more rounds.
 
 
 He said samples of the broken railway track have been brought to Kanpur and are being sent for examination to the Research Designs and Standards Organisation's (RDSO) laboratory.
 
 
 A 12-member team of Government Railway Police (GRP) personnel has also been formed to investigate the derailment.
 
 
 On being told that the GRP had registered FIRs against unknown people and is also investigating the matter, Acharya said he had nothing to do with the GRP's probe.
 
 
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.RELATEDPhotos of missing children go viral on social mediaChief secretary offers interim relief to victimsVillagers continue to flock to spot to render helpSBI opens ATM at LLR to help injuredTeams from Bihar, MP set up help desks at hospitalKanpur train derailment: Death toll rises to 145Indore-Patna express derails: 'Jerks, a loud bang and shrill screams'Indore-Patna express derails: Up for pre-dawn prayer, they rushed to rescueIndore-Patna express derails: Looking around helplessly for bags