Written by Ishita Mishra
							 | Agra | 		
										
								 Published:November 21, 2016 10:11 pm
								
								
												
												
												
											 Photo for representational purpose.
A KEY WITNESS in the gangrape and murder of a 35-year-old woman in Shamli districts Kairana this April was shot dead early Monday at his house at Akbarpur Sunheti village, police said.
The witness, 55-year-old Brahmpal Singh, was shot in his sleep between 1:30 and 2 am at a site where residents keep their cattle, said local police, citing a complaint from Singhs brother.
Singh was the brother-in-law of the woman who was kidnapped on April 4 and found murdered three days later, according to police. The gangrape and murder had sparked outrage in the area with BJP MP Hukum Singh claiming that the incident had led to an exodus of Hindu families from Kairana to escape criminal elements belonging to a particular community.
Local police said that in his complaint, Singhs brother Ramesh named six people, identified as Mustafa, Amzad, Safdar, Maulana Mehsar, Sufiyan and Parvez, all residents of the village and relatives of two of the accused in the gangrape and murder case.
A case of murder has been registered against the six, said police, based on Rameshs complaint.
Kairana police station SHO A P Bhardwaj said that village residents came to know about Singhs murder by members of the other community through an announcement made using a loudspeaker from the local temple.
The accused allegedly shot dead Brahmpal in the gher (where villagers keep their cattle) where he was sleeping between 1:30 am and 2 am Monday. Ramesh, who lodged the complaint, alleged that he saw the accused running away after killing his brother and that they were relatives of those accused in the gangrape and murder (of April), said Bhardwaj.
Police are verifying the allegations made by the complainant, he said.
The complainant Ramesh also alleged that the family of the accused in the gangrape and murder had been mounting pressure on his relatives to not pursue the case.
Apart from the allegations of an exodus, the gangrape and murder had stoked controversy after the police also named two of the victims relatives her nephew Ankush and brother-in-law Ramendra as accused along with two local traders Kurban and Mohsin.
Kurban and Mohsin are in jail while Ankush and Ramendra are allegedly on the run.
When contacted, BJP MP Hukum Singh said that he would visit the spot after the ongoing Parliament session.
I had apprehensions about this. He (Brahmapal) was the only person who was taking up the case and he is shot dead. They dared to kill him inside his house even when PAC (Police Armed Constabulary) is deployed in the village. If this situation prevails, all Hindus will have to leave Kairana, said Hukum Singh.