By Marc Caputo (mcaputo@politico.com; @MarcACaputo) with Bianca Padr Ocasio (bpadro@politico.com; @BiancaJoanie) and the staff of POLITICO Florida
Good Monday morning. The dictator is dead. Long live the dictator. Fidel Castro is gone. His brother remains in power. Castroism lives on. Story Continued Below
 CASTRO CODA Fidels death foreshadows the end of friendlier relations between Cuba and the U.S. It provided a chance for President-elect Trump to talk tough on Saturday while President Obama issued a diplomatically anodyne statement that elided any mention of Fidels brutal history. Compare and contrast the statements here: http://bit.ly/2fUEo56
ART OF THE HAVANA DEAL Trump has repeatedly sought business deals in Cuba (and circumvented the embargo or raised questions about violating it). Now hell be in charge of negotiating a political deal with Cuba. And, though Trumps position on Cuba shifted during the election, he appears to have returned to a hardline position in line with Miamis older exile community and leaders like Sen. Marco Rubio who say Castro has only been given too many concessions but improved too few human rights.
 Priebus: Trump absolutely willing to end Cuba opening, by POLITICOs Matthew Nussbaum: http://politi.co/2fBwGvp
 Rubio, Scott, Nelson say Fidel Castro death an opportunity to push for freedom, by TCPalms Isadora Rangel: http://bit.ly/2fUnrri
 Miami politicians spy opening for Trump to adopt Cuba hard line, by Miami Heralds Patricia Mazzei and Douglas Hanks: http://hrld.us/2fzPnj9
 Slow change after Fidel, by Miami Heralds Mimi Whitefield: http://hrld.us/2gAlcdH
 A death worth celebrating: Cubas Beast of Birn, dictator Fidel Castro, finally dead at 90, by Babal Blogs Alberto de la Cruz: http://bit.ly/2glOBrS
 In Miami, Fidel Castros death marked with salsa party, tears and free Cuba Libres, by Miami Heralds Kyra Gurney, Douglas Hanks, Jordan Levin, Monique O. Madan and Daniel Chang: http://hrld.us/2g3M47J
 What Castros death means for Miamis young Cuban American leaders, by The New Tropics staff: http://bit.ly/2gNeaVU
 Change coming to Florida politics after decades of influence by Fidel Castro, by Sun Sentinels Anthony Man: http://bit.ly/2fq2bgQ
 After Castro, what's next? by Miami Heralds Patricia Mazzei and Douglas Hanks: http://hrld.us/2gAi3ur
 Life in the time of Fidel was about waiting and death, by Palm Beach Posts Liz Balmaseda: http://pbpo.st/2fUjYsQ
 Much Uncertainty Ahead in US-Cuba Relationship, by NBC Miamis Bradley Klapper: http://bit.ly/2gwPhtM
 Rick Sanchez: My rare meeting with Fidel, by Fox News Latinos Rick Sanchez: http://fxn.ws/2gNcpYX 
THE MUST-READ BIO Fidel Castro is dead, by Miami Heralds Glenn Garvin: Few national leaders have inspired such intense loyalty or such a wrenching feeling of betrayal. Few fired the hearts of the worlds restless youth as Castro did when he was young, and few seemed so irrelevant as Castro when he was old the last Communist, railing on the empty, decrepit street corner that Cuba became under his rule. http://hrld.us/2grjP3y
 Years of planning pay off for CNN and Miami Heralds coverage of Castros death, by Poynters Al Tompkins: When news of Fidel Castro's death broke late Friday night, the Miami Herald had a plan, decades in the making, to cover the story. 'We've been planning for this story longer than some of the people covering it have been alive,' said Rick Hirsch, managing editor of the Miami Herald. Shortly after Castro's death, the Herald's website was flush with stories about the Cuban dictator, reflecting Miami's connection with the island. For decades, Herald staffers have known about the 'Cuba Plan.' http://bit.ly/2fq0gJi
OBAMACARE WARS Floridians fear repeal of Obama health care under Trump, by AP News Kelli Kennedy: Sherry Riggs didn't stay awake to find out who the next president would be. Her heart literally couldn't take it. Riggs, a 55-year-old barber, has been ordered to avoid stress after a heart attack and bypass surgery last month. Last year, she had a stent put in, paid for by insurance she purchased under President Barack Obama's health overhaul. 'If it wasn't for Obamacare I really would be dead twice now,' said Riggs who recently divorced and has been staying at a friend's house In Fort Pierce since leaving the hospital a few weeks ago. Now she's 'terrified,' Riggs said, that if President-elect Donald Trump repeals the Affordable Care Act, 'I'm going to be gone.' The Obama plan has expanded coverage to about 20 million more Americans, and no state has more at stake than Florida, where more residents signed up than anywhere else. http://apne.ws/2fCIcXB
 Understanding the Trump effect on Florida, by USA Todays Ledyard King: http://on.tdo.com/2glOUmj 
 What will Florida education look like under a Trump presidency? by Tampa Bay Times Colleen Wright and Jeffrey Solochek: http://bit.ly/2gxOda0
NEW FLORIDA WHITE HOUSE President Harry Truman had the Little White House in Key West. Then President Richard Nixon had the Winter White House in Key Biscayne. Now its clear that Trumps Mar-a-Lago estate on yet another South Florida Island, Palm Beach, will become the third presidential retreat in the Sunshine State. Over the Thanksgiving weekend, the New York Post reports, Trump was already using Mar-a-Lago as a presidential headquarters where he asked insiders whether he should choose pick Mitt Romney or Rudy Giuliani for secretary of state. 
 Greetings from Mar-a-Lago: Donald Trump's presidential paradise, by Tampa Bay Times Alex Leary: http://bit.ly/2fq30Gr
SEMINOLE CHOP FSUs DeMarcus Walker trolls Marco Rubio, Gators, Hurricanes, by Orlando Sentinels Safid Deen: Florida States self-imposed Twitter ban has been lifted following the regular season, and DeMarcus Walker wasted little time to execute a masterful troll job. Walker, FSUs senior defensive end, tweeted a simple smiley face emoji to Sen. Marco Rubio, a University of Florida graduate, following FSUs 31-13 win over UF on Saturday night. Walkers angst with Rubio, the former Republican presidential hopeful, stems from a comment Rubio made during a Iowa radio interview in September 2015. 'Look, I don't have anything against Florida State,' Rubio said. 'I think there has to be a school where people who can't get into Florida can go to college.' Walker, one of the most outspoken members of the Seminoles team, improved to 8-0 in his career against the rival Gators and Miami Hurricanes. http://bit.ly/2gNa2W3
SWEET VIEW Luxury box fundraiser highlights Corcorans dual role, by POLITICO Floridas Matt Dixon: The arm of the Republican Party of Florida that runs House campaigns and is led by House Speaker Richard Corcoran held a college football fundraiser on Saturday in a box owned by U.S. Sugar, a company that has one of the largest stables of contract lobbyists in the state.
The fundraiser, which was held during a game between Florida State University and the University of Florida, is not unique, but what makes the event notable is the fact that Corcoran recently implemented a round a sweeping new House rules that largely focus on reducing the influence of lobbyists. It underscores the two hats Corcoran must wear: the leader of a legislative chamber who has vowed to limit the role of lobbyists and a GOP leader who must raise money from them. http://politi.co/2glW8qu 
 Corcoran stresses collaboration on House committee assignments, by POLITICO Floridas Jessica Bakeman: http://politi.co/2fDeG7e
BATTLES BREWING As tourism surges, Gov. Scotts marketing efforts for Florida under attack, by Times/Heralds Jeremy Wallace: There is hardly a speech by Scott that doesnt include praise for the states growing number of jobs over the last six years or the states record tourism. But incoming House speaker Corcoran has already said hes against further funding for Scotts cherished jobs incentive program. Now hes taking aim at the states tourism marketing arm.
Visit Florida has seen its budget grow from about $29 million to more than $78 million since 2009, a 169 percent increase in spending. Meanwhile, the number of tourists in Florida has grown from about 82 million to more than 106 million, a 29 percent increase during the same period. Corcoran, however, says he anticipates a drop in tourism that is forcing him to consider slashing the states marketing budget, which is ripe for second-guessing. http://hrld.us/2fDjGsp
DEPLETED LEGACY Florida districts develop plans to combat water crisis, by The Gainesville Suns Cindy Swirko: The Ichetucknee and lower Santa Fe rivers have less water than they need to support the life in them water and life that lures people to swim, paddle kayaks and catch fish.White Springs, once a thriving resort full of visitors soaking up the presumed health benefits from its sulphurous pool, doesnt have enough water to attract an otter. And the volume of water in other springs is in jeopardy, too the aquifer isnt bubbling up as much as it used to in some spots because its increasingly pumped out by utilities, homeowners, businesses and agriculture. Meanwhile, more people are expected to flood into North Florida from the Atlantic coast to the Gulf coast. They are expected to use a lot of water 667 million gallons of water (mgd) a day by 2035, up from todays usage of a little more than 551 mgd. http://bit.ly/2gAb1Gf
420 411 If youre eligible for medical pot, how easy will it be to get? Depends on where you live, by Miami Heralds David Smiley: As the state prepares to expand its highly restrictive medical cannabis program on Jan. 3 following the overwhelming passage of Amendment 2, dispensaries providing oils, low-THC pills, vape pens and other products are expected to pop up by the hundreds around the state. Given that federal law keeps pharmacies from distributing marijuana, dispensaries will likely be a key cog in a fledgling industry that today requires the vast majority of legal users to receive their medication by personal delivery. http://hrld.us/2fTyelu
321 December promises flurry of Cape Canaveral launches, by Florida Todays James Dean: At least three missions, each flown by different rockets, are scheduled to launch from Cape Canaveral Air Force Station during a 10-day period next month that could close out the 2016 launch manifest. Heres whats coming... Dec. 7: United Launch Alliance plans to launch its fourth Delta IV rocket and 11th mission overall this year... Dec. 12: Orbital ATK brings its air-launched Pegasus rocket to Cape Canaveral for a rare flight... Dec. 16: ULAs final mission of the year will see an Atlas V launch the EchoStar-19 commercial communications satellite in the early afternoon. http://on.flatoday.com/2gwKBnw
ANNALS OF BAD POLICING Miami police knew for years that homicide evidence container was rotting, by Miami Heralds David Smiley and Charles Rabin: Miami police brass knew at least four years ago that a storage unit warehousing evidence from hundreds of homicide and unclassified death cases was deteriorating and allowed the problem to fester until it became an emergency. But one month after Miamis police chief publicly admitted that rodents and the elements had spoiled some of the items stored in the rotting container and asserted he acted as soon as he learned of the problem investigators going piece by piece through the contents of 564 potentially affected cases have yet to determine the full consequences of the departments inaction. http://hrld.us/2gNa3cK
VENEZUELA, THE OTHER CUBA The government steals medicine donated by the Catholic church, by Caracas Chronicles Francisco Toro: Remember the 'Humanitarian Channel' the government and the opposition had agreed to set up in Vatican-mediated talks? Thats right, the one that was meant to be administered by Caritas, the Catholic Churchs global charity. That one. Hows that been going? Well, funny you should askIn short, the governments tax inspectorate, Seniat, openly announces that theyre impounding church-donated medicines at port because they lack requisite customs paperwork. The shipment was declared legally abandoned and then adjudicated to the government-run Social Security administration. http://bit.ly/2glNJTS
ABSTRACT ART Advisory council picks Fort Lauderdale artist to sculpt prominent Floridian for U.S. Capitol, by Sun Sentinels Diane Lade: Nilda Comas, a Fort Lauderdale artist with sculptures in private and public places around the world, has brought to life holy saints, elegant equestrians, famous explorers. Her potential next high-profile commission, however, could present her with a new challenge: She would be portraying a famous Floridian but doesn't know which one. Yet.
In a national competition, Comas was selected by Florida's Council on Arts and Culture to create a new sculpture for the National Statuary Hall, inside the U.S. Capitol Building in Washington, D.C. State legislators are expected to name the subject next year, when they would also need to approve Comas' appointment by the advisory council and the project budget. http://bit.ly/2gxJk0L 
POLITICS OF ART Whitney Biennial to Miami Artists: Its Not Us, Its You, by New York Times Brett Sokol: As the art worlds eyes turn toward this weeks Art Basel Miami Beach fair, you might imagine its homegrown artists relishing the moment. Yet For the fourth Biennial in a row, not a single Miami artist was chosen [for the Whitney Museum of American Arts 2017 Biennial]. ... Adding insult, this years curators enlisted a Miami-based adviser, Gean Moreno, curator of programs at the Institute of Contemporary Art Miami. Mr. Moreno said he suggested several local artists whose studios were personally visited by the Biennial curators. Yet none were ultimately chosen. The reason? Politics or the lack thereof.
They simply didnt fit into the curators vision of engaging the social moment, he said. Its not that there arent good Miami artists, but the determining factor was art that addressed the social upheavals of the last six years, from Occupy to Black Lives Matter to all the thinking around climate change and sea-level rise. http://nyti.ms/2gNUCRm
ODDS, ENDS AND FLORIDA MEN 
 State fines bird center, demands environmental violations be fixed, by FL Keys News David Goodhue: http://bit.ly/2fq3s7K
 As the Aedes aegypti mosquito spreads globally, so does the risk of epidemics, by The Washington Posts Brady Dennis: http://bit.ly/2fGyEy6
 Governor joins sheriff, mourners at Nassau County officers funeral, by The Florida Times-Unions Eileen Kelley: http://bit.ly/2gNg21h
 Two men accused of negotiating illegal $1M anti-aircraft ammunition deal in Broward, by Sun Sentinels Paula McMahon: http://bit.ly/2fGxPVO
 Environmental groups brace to fight Trump over climate change, by Miami Heralds Greg Gordon: http://hrld.us/2gwBqae
 Anti-death penalty event planned for Wednesday in St. Augustine, by The St. Augustine Records Jared Keever: http://bit.ly/2gNidSc
 Florida's oldest, and perhaps strongest, corrections officer, by Orlando Sentinels staff: http://bit.ly/2fq5Hrv
 Tom Grady's not interested in FGCU presidency, by POLITICO Floridas Jessica Bakeman: http://politi.co/2gwefx2
CIRCLE OF LIFE Duck Hunter Attacked By Alligator In Everglades, by CBS Miamis staff: A duck hunter in his 50s is recovering in the hospital after being bit by an alligator in the Everglades during a duck hunting trip. Investigators say the mans injury is not life threatening. Paramedics rushed the duck hunter to Broward Health Medical Center on Friday afternoon. His friend and hunting partner, Roberto Gautier, said his pal, Krit Krutchaiyan, should make a full recovery. 'Hes fine,' said Gautier. 'Hes in good spirits.' Gautier said the pair was getting ready for a duck hunt in the Everglades. He said they were preparing to get in their kayaks when the gator struck. 'His reaction was, Oh my God! It bit me.' http://cbsloc.al/2gwOZD4
**DOWNLOAD POLITICO'S TRANSITION TRACKER: POLITICO will deliver breaking news notifications on the incoming administration -- directly to your iPhone's lock screen. Using the unique capabilities and speed of Apple Wallet, Transition Tracker alerts users to all the key personnel and policy decisions as they're made by the president-elect. This is currently availableonly for iPhone users via Apple Wallet. Download the pass, available for readers using iPhones, here.
How Burlington fired up an energy revolution: The newest installment of POLITICO Magazine's What Works series explores how Burlington - a former logging port on the shore of Lake Champlain -- transformed itself into a global trendsetter in sustainable practices in power generation and food production. Read More. Photo gallery.
FOR MORE political and policy news, check out Politico Floridas home page: http://politi.co/1jkJUyL. And please follow our staff @mdixon55, @sbustosFL, @christinesexton, @dducassi, @jessicabakeman and @bruceritchie on Twitter.
SUBSCRIBE to the Playbook family: POLITICO Playbook http://politi.co/1M75UbX ... New York Playbook http://politi.co/1ON8bqW ... Florida Playbook http://politi.co/1JDm23W ... New Jersey Playbook http://politi.co/1HLKltF ... Massachusetts Playbook http://politi.co/1Nhtq5v ... Illinois Playbook http://politi.co/1N7u5sb ... California Playbook http://politi.co/1N8zdJU ... Brussels Playbook http://politi.co/1FZeLcw ... All our political and policy tipsheets http://politi.co/1M75UbX 
 
 
 This story tagged under: