November 28, 20161/68Pic: Iulia Vantur accompanies Salman Khan, parties with Kareena and gang!
 Kareena Kapoor Khan, who is all set to enter a new phase of her life, is not letting pregnancy hold her back as she was recently seen partying with husband Saif Ali Khan and her girl gang Amrita Arora, Malaika Arora and sister Karisma Kapoor. Kareena joined the girls for a private rooftop bash. However, it was not Bebo and her baby bump that caught everyone's attention, but rather Salman Khan and his alleged girlfriend Iulia Vantur. The highlight of the party was the couple making a joint appearance, especially after rumours of their break-up began doing the rounds post Iulia's return to Romania. News of Ms. Vantur coming back to the city of dreams was abuzz for quite some time and this picture goes on to make it official.
Scroll down for more. ...Read more2/68Is Salman Khans alleged girlfriend Iulia Vantur back in Mumbai?News of Salman Khans alleged girlfriend Iulia Vantur leaving the country sparked rumours of the couple breaking up. However, recent updates on the Romanian beautys Instagram tell an entirely different story.
If a recent post on her Instagram is anything to go by, looks like Iulia is back in the city of dreams. The pic in question shows her holding a cup of coffee while a Mumbai autorickshaw can be seen in the background. This picture comes amidst buzz that she was apparently a part of Helens birthday bash held at a Bandra five-star hotel earlier this week. 
Yesterday too, Iulia posted a rather cryptic message which read, A lie can travel halfway around the world while the truth is still putting on its shoes. What truth is she referring to? Our guess is as good as yours.
Scroll down for more. ...Read more3/68Is Salman's alleged girlfriend Iulia Vantur back in Mumbai?All is well in Salman Khan's private paradise. Rumours of his break up with long-time girlfriend and alleged fiance, Iulia Vantur, have been scotched with this one.Yesterday, the Romanian beauty posted on her photo-sharing site her version of Karva Chauth, the (mainly) north Indian festival where women fast from sunrise to moonrise for their husband's longevity. She posted: God has given each one of us 2 eyes, 2 ears, 2 hands, 2 legs. To be complete we need THE matching heart. Celebrate love, it's the most beautiful gift we have. Happy Karva Choth! (sic). Rather spiritual, no? But we also hear rumours that Vantur is back in Mumbai, and did indeed keep a fast at Salman Khan's Galaxy residence. Khan is in Mumbai too, in between his Manali schedule for Kabir Khan's Sino-Indian romance, to shoot for a reality TV show he hosts. Interestingly, Salman has also been dropped from his cola ad campaign, since this TV show's title sponsor is a rival cola. But there will be ample time for drinks and feasts as his rumoured wedding date approaches....Read more4/68Did Iulia Vantur observe Karva Chauth for Salman Khan?Although Salman Khan and rumoured girlfriend Iulia Vantur never admitted to being in a long-standing relationship, their pictures and Instagram posts told a different story. However, recent reports suggested that the lovebirds had called it quits on their relationship.
So we were a tad surprised when Iulia took to Instagram to share a warm and heartfelt message on the occasion of Karva Chauth. She sent out her greetings with a picture and a message that read, God has given each one of us 2 eyes, 2 ears, 2 hands, 2 legs. To be complete we need THE matching heart. Celebrate love, it's the most beautiful gift we have. Happy Karva Choth! #love #celebration #gift #share #together #special. Does this mean that all is well between the two and that Iulia observed the day-long fast for Salman? Well, our guess is as good as yours....Read more5/68Salman Khan and Iulia Vantur part ways?Superstar Salman Khan's love life has always been a hot topic of discussion. B-Town's most eligible bachelor is often linked to some of the most gorgeous women out there, the recent one being Romanian beauty Iulia Vantur. Grapevine was abuzz with reports of the duo planning on getting hitched on November 18, this year. However, if recent developments are to go by, all's not well between the duo. According to reports, Iulia feels that there was a lack of commitment from her alleged beau and is apparently not planning on coming back to India anytime soon. After Ran-Kat and Alia-Sidharth, is this the end of another B-Town relationship?...Read more