By: Express Web Desk | New Delhi | 		
										
								 Updated: November 28, 2016 1:01 pm
								
								
												
												
												
											
 Salman Khans alleged girlfriend Iulia Vantur seems to be here to stay.
Salman Khans alleged girlfriend Iulia Vantur seems to be here to stay. After Iulia had to leave India and return to Romania to figure out some visa issues, gossip mills alleged that another of Salmans relationships has bitten the dust. Only, Iulia has returned and is making appearances at Salmans family events and parties and has even kick-started her music career in the country. The one for whom she has sung her first song is Himesh Reshammiya who belongs to the actors inner circle.
WATCH VIDEO:Bigg Boss 10 Nov 28 Review: Priyanka Jagga Aims At Breaking Manu Mona Lisa Equation
		
	
Even as a pic of Iulia and Himesh standing together holding a mike is circulating on social media, Himesh recently told Bombay Times that he offered the song to Iulia after he heard her singing a completely new version of Jag ghoomeya from Sultan.
He said in the interview, I loved the way she had sung it and felt she was absolutely right for my song. When I approached her, she agreed instantly. While the songs hook line is Every night and day, just you and me, it is entirely in Hindi.
All praise for his co-singer, Himesh was quoted as saying, Iulia is talented and has sung beautifully. She is a professional singer, so shes well-versed with the technicalities of recording. Her Hindi diction and pronunciation surprised me and Im happy with the way the track has shaped up. All those who have heard it, have loved it. This song has been recorded for Himeshs next album Aap Se Mausiiquii.
		
							
							
							
							
							
							
							
							
							
							
							
							
							
							
							
					
		
				
		
		
		
		
							
							
							
							
							
							
							
							
							
							
							
							
							
							
							
					
		
				
		
		
		
		
							
							
							
							
							
							
							
							
							
							
							
							
							
							
							
					
		
				
		
		
		
		
							
							
							
							
							
							
							
							
							
							
							
							
							
							
							
					
		
				
		
		
		
Also Read:Iulia Vantur is back in India and in Salman Khans life
Meanwhile, Salmans fans are excited that Iulia Vantur is back in the country. They never broke up in the first place, told a source to indianexpress.com and adds, Iulia went back to honour her professional and personal commitments. Also, she was away from home for a long time and it was the perfect time to meet her family and friends. She had accompanied Salman for the shooting of Tubelight. Post that he got busy with Bigg Boss and Iulia has already been on the sets of the show in past and decided she could use this time to visit her hometown for a much-needed break. But she was always in touch with Salman and his family.
 The Indian Express Online Media Pvt Ltd								
																
								
								 
																	
										
											Tags:
																							
													Iulia Vantur
												
																							
													salman khan