Wild card entry Jason Shah is Bigg Boss 10's latest blue-eyed boy, quite literally. The UK born, Gujarati model, has more to him than just good looks (as revealed by the hot pictures from his Instagram account). Jason doesn't like to restrict himself to just one thing, and you won't believe that he balances his assignments in the glamour world with organic and goat farming. And these are just few of the things he does. The list is long.He is a Bollywood actor, well almostIf you missed him in Salman Khan's Partner's songDupatta Tera Nau Rang Da, you would have surely spotted him in Katrina Kaif and Aditya Roy Kapoor's Fitoor--shirtless. So if you missed him in both the movies, you surely have a reason to watch him sharing screen space with Salman and other contestants in Bigg Boss now.Also read: Surprise, surprise! Priyanka Jagga is back; four wild card contestants to enter Bigg Boss 10He went shirtless, a la Salman last nightHe was introduced to the audience in last night's episode, as he shook a leg with Salman, shirtless, on his song--O O Jaane Jaana from Pyaar Kiya To Darna Kya. He admitted that he had two left feet, but did a decent job following Salman's cue.He considers Manu and Bani his strongest competitorsBefore entering the Bigg Boss 10 house, Jason in an exclusive conversation with India Today Online revealed that Manu and Bani are two contestants he considers his strongest competition. I think Manu and Bani are playing an interesting game, and they will prove to be the strongest competitors for me.See pics: Model Jason Shah to enter Bigg Boss 10; you cannot miss his HOT picsNervous, but readyNervous about entering the house, Jason revealed to us that he had watched some episodes of this season and had also followed Big Brother, so he had an idea about the show, and was ready for it.Salman is No. 1 entertainerJason was also full of praises for host Salman Khan, because of the way he handles his job of hosting Bigg Boss, he's a No. 1 entertainer, he added.'I am what I am'The hot model says he would be undeterred by the competition and reveal his true side. I am who I am. I will try not stuck in a league. I will take each day as a challenge.Also read: Bigg Boss 10: Hot wildcard contestant Jason Shah is dating this Brazilian modelRomance in BB 10 house, are you kidding me?Bigg Boss house is known for making even committed people stray, and though Jason is already in relationship with Brazilian model Daniela Poublan, how would he resist the temptation for falling in love with a housemate? If you have seen my girlfriend, you will know I'm not going to fall for anybody, he laughs.On what he does for livingI do many things, but my primary profession is modeling. I want to do acting. Hopefully, after doing Bigg Boss, I fill find a platform to enter the business. I am into organic farming also. I have a lot of things there.So is ready for the cameras capturing all his activities day and night, without any filter? This is the reason I signed the show. For being watched, he signed off.