The two things that set Ranveer Singh apart from the rest of his Bollywood peers are his wackiness, and his sense of style, listed in no particular order.A still fromKoffee With KaranSo we knew that when Ranveerwas returning to Koffee With Karan for the fifth season, he would outdo his outrageousness in the last. He announced to host Karan Johar: We have come together to save your season.This was as he, along with fellow guest Ranbir Kapoor, made one of the most memorable entries of the chat show, holding Karan's shiny golden shoes and told him, If you say anything out of line, I will launch this (the shoe) at you.The director, in turn, asked him whether he would ever say such a thing to Sanjay Leela Bhansali. The answer was no.Of course, the topic of Deepika Padukone was immediately addressed as 'the elephant in the room'. Ranbir, however, tries to stall the conversation by calling Karan Johar the real elephant, but he and Ranveerseemed quite okay talking about their ex and present girlfriends.The most entertaining parts of this week's episode were definitely the Rapid Fire Round and the Koffee Quiz.Case in point: In the first episode of the fifth season starring Shah Rukh Khan and Alia Bhatt, Shah Rukh had asked if Ranveers underwear in Befikre was padded, because if not, then hes a fan. Ranveer explained what happened: It was cold in Paris and the sets were air-conditioned, sohe had to use some stuffing. Or else, they'd have had to get VFX for his 'red chilly' (SRK's production house is Red Chillies Entertainment).Ranveer of course, won the famed gifthamper for that.This was not the end of the repartee between the guests and the host. The Koffee Quiz section had the two stars imitating Hrithik Roshan, Sanjay Dutt and Katrina Kaif's dance moves. Ranbir Singh won the section with his answers and also hisimpression of Katrina Kaif dancing to 'Chikni Chameli.'Also, front and center were jokes about Karan Johar.I want to see you in a pink Angora sweater, Ranveer told him.Who would you put on the cover of Playboy? was one of the questions Ranbir Kapoor was asked in his Rapid Fire round. Karan Johar, he promptly replied.At one point Ranveer even told Karan: What I would not give to see you in a pair of white hot pants! (Side note: Thanks for that image Ranveer, we'll never get it out of our heads now.)The host took all the jokes thrown at him sportingly and even managed to add to them. The episode was among the best ones of the season, so far. Not only was the chemistry between the guests amazing, the warm camaraderie between the host and the guests was something we definitely want to see in all the upcoming episodes as well.First Published On : Nov 28, 2016 12:33 IST