more videosWatch latest videos from THE TIMES of INDIALoading latest videos...Tamil Nadu chief minister J Jayalalithaa is now speaking for a few minutes using a speaking aid, said Apollo Hospitals chairman Dr Prathap C Reddy on Friday. She had undergone tracheostomy a small hole in the windpipe to connect her to a ventilator which made speaking difficult.TNN | Updated: Nov 26, 2016, 02.41 AM ISTTamil Nadu chief minister J Jayalalithaa. (File photo)
 CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu chief minister J Jayalalithaa is now speaking for a few minutes using a speaking aid, said Apollo Hospitals chairman Dr Prathap C Reddy on Friday. She had undergone tracheostomy - a small hole in the windpipe to connect her to a ventilator - which made speaking difficult.
 
 
 Speaking on the sidelines of an event, Dr Reddy said the chief minister may not require intensive training with the speaking aid as her tracheostomy is only temporary. The next step for her is to stand up and walk. She has been through a serious illness and has been on bed for several weeks, he said.
 
 
 The 68-year-old chief minister was breathing on her own most of the time and undergoing physiotherapy specific to each organ. She is breathing on her own 90% of the time. After the sixth or seventh week, we found that all organs were functioning reasonably well. She is now getting a whole body physiotherapy - both static and active, he said.
 
 
 Asked when Jayalalithaa would be discharged, Dr Reddy said, She will go only when she realises that everything is perfect. She will decide when she wants to go.
 
 
 Jayalalithaa was admitted to the hospital on September 22 with complaints of fever and dehydration. She was later put on respiratory support and treated with antibiotics for infection and lung congestion. She was given passive physiotherapy. A team of doctors from the UK and the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, joined the team of doctors at Apollo Hospitals to treat her. She is on a regular, but high-protein, diet.
 
 
 On November 19, she was shifted to a special room from the intensive critical care unit. The room is a personalised one which had the facilities of an intensive care unit, including respiratory support, a senior doctor said.
 
 
 
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.RELATEDTop cop drafts in two more officers for Madhan casePolice bust two flesh trade dens, 4 women rescuedAuto driver held for burgling shopHonoured for gift of life after deathWhats wrong with medical students in TN?Landlord dies heartbrokenUnpaid bills: Tangedco sends notice to defaulting deptsSaree, favourite still, but in the wardrobeIn Tamil literature, bitter rivalries echo state politics