more videosWatch latest videos from THE TIMES of INDIALoading latest videos...Sumati YengkhomIn a move to make donation of organs more frequent, all hospitals in the city that are authorised to conduct transplant surgeries have been asked to constitute their respective brain-death declaration committee, submit it to Swastha Bhawan and seek approval. | TNN | Updated: Nov 26, 2016, 06.26 AM IST(Representative image)
 KOLKATA: In a move to make donation of organs more frequent, all hospitals in the city that are authorised to conduct transplant surgeries have been asked to constitute their respective brain-death declaration committee, submit it to Swastha Bhawan and seek approval. The health department is also likely to come out with a circular to make brain-death declarations mandatory.
 
 
 So far, only three hospitals Institute of Post-Graduate Medical Education and Research (IPGMER), Belle Vue Clinic and Woodlands Multispecialty Ltd have approved brain-death declaration committees. The health department expects other hospitals to join the list.
 
 
 Though donation of organs from brain-dead patients is still at a nascent stage in Bengal, the city has seen four donations in last six months. Raising awareness about donations has played a major role, felt doctors. Constituting respective brain-death declaration committees is a giant step forward, they added.
 
 
 So far, three hospitals have sent a list of doctors who are in their brain-death declaration committees and we have approved them. I am sure other hospitals are taking similar steps, said Dr Aditi Kishore Sarkar, senior nodal officer on organ transplantation.
 
 
 In the four cases of organ donations, the hospitals had to call in health officials from Swastha Bhawan for declaring the donor brain-dead. The hospitals, therefore, had to wait till members of the organ-declaration committee from Swastha Bhawan gave the clearance.
 
 
 This is a very positive move from the health department. Public awareness on organ donation is increasing and we should not let a single such wish go waste, said Dr Pratim Sengupta. The nephrologist, who is in Belle Vue Clinic's brain-death declaration committee, had been instrumental in convincing families in at least two deceased organ donations recently.
 
 
 Some hospitals, including Apollo Gleneagles Hospital, which already has such committees, have been asked to enlist more doctors so that at least four doctors are available at any time for the job. We are expanding the list of doctors in our brain-death declaration committee as asked by the health department, said Dr Rupali Basu, president and CEO (eastern region) of Apollo Hospitals group.
 
 
 According to health department sources, nine hospitals in the city have the licence to carry out organ transplant surgeries. While Apollo and IPGMER are authorized to conduct liver and kidney transplants, the rest can conduct only kidney transplants.
 
 
 Our next move to make organ donation thrive is to make brain-death declaration mandatory by these hospitals, said Dr Sarkar.
 
 
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.RELATEDPre-term babies were force-fed before being sold10 baby girls rescued from old-age home; owner heldLeft gives bandh call on Monday; Mamata Banerjee opposes, to hit streets12 years on, prime suspect of Nobel theft re-arrestedTruck hits moms cycle, 7-year-olds head crushedMore flights to Myanmar soonNo malice against kids, but truth must be outState on its way to frame witness protection policyShady nursing homes in Kolkata under scanner