more videosWatch latest videos from THE TIMES of INDIALoading latest videos...TNN | Nov 26, 2016, 12.17 AM IST
 Hyderabad: The Medical Council of India (MCI) refused to give permission to state-run Osmania Medical College (OMC) to increase MBBS seats from 200 to 250 for the 2017-18 academic session.
 
 
 This decision was taken at a MCI meeting held in Delhi last month after officials found the college lacking in certain parameters during an assessment in August.
 
 
 The deficiencies include shortage of resident doctors, lack of residential quarters and shortage of experience of the dean.
 
 
 Further, they cited a 12.9% shortage of residents (postgraduate doctors doing 1 year compulsory service after their course) in the college, a claim refuted by the college authorities. Stating that some residents allotted to the college did not report on time during the inspection, Dr Aruna Ramaiah, principal of OMC, said: The MCI's assessment team visited our college in August but the grounds on which they objected to our increased MBBS quota are not justifiable. Some of the deficiencies have already been corrected. She added that the college is yet to receive a formal communication from MCI in this regard.
 
 
 How can this be pointed out as a reason to deny increase in intake when no government medical teaching college in Telangana provides residential quarters for their staff, asked Dr G Srinivas, president of Telangana Junior Doctors' Association.
 
 
 MCI's objection about the OMC principal-cum-dean Prof Aruna Ramaiah's lack of experience (by four months) was also questioned. While the MCI team noted that Dr Aruna Ramaiah has only 9 years and eight months experience as professor and associate professor before appointment as dean against combined experience of 10 years, Dr Aruna told TOI that she had crossed the 10 year-mark in September, a month after the inspection.
 
 
 Incidentally, the MCI has also decided to withhold permission for the forthcoming MBBS batch (100 seats) in Government Medical College, Nizamabad, for 2017-18 academic year as their assessment team during inspection in September found that the college had 20.95% teaching faculty deficiency besides 20.89% shortage of residents.
 
 
 
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.RELATED45 builders in line of fire oversafety normsHome Minister praises security forces for foiling Pak efforts in JKTirupati railway station set to get a faceliftRed sanders smugglers attack cops in forestsConstruction in full swing within prohibited Charminar zoneHeritage building roof collapses in PathergattiProsecution witness turns hostile in Akbaruddin Owaisi attack caseRowdy-sheeter attacks daily labourer for stalking his wifeIn queue since 2am, but no cash