In a horrifying incident in Uttar Pradesh, awoman attacked a bride with acid during her wedding night in Cantonment area in Bareilly. The incident took place in brides room in Yugveeda library compound just before the wedding rituals were supposed to being on Friday night. The Bride along with her grandmother were sitting in her room while all their guest were outside in the compound.
Culprit attacked bride when she was alone in the room
The culprits entered the room, one of them held the bride and the other attacked her with acid. Bride rushed to the hospital, and then later she returned from a hospital to complete her marriage ceremony before going back for treatment after a woman threw acid on her face.
The brides family members decided to go ahead with the marriage even after the horrifying attack. The girl was discharged from the hospital after preface treatment and brought to the venue for the wedding took place around 3am on Saturday. She was again admitted to the hospital as per doctors advice.
Attacker was a female who came to meet bride
As per the police, the relatives of the girls were preparing for jaimala ceremony while the bride was in the room at the marriage hall when the attacker came to attack her. Both of them were alone in the room when the female attacker came to meet her and threw acid on her face.
The attacker reportedly locked the room outside and escaped. The brides relative who rushed to the room after hearing a shout of her took her to the hospital; She was shifted to another hospital. According to hospital sources, she had got serious injuries on her face and eyes.
Police have registered a case against attacker and started a probe
Police have registered a case against culprit and begun investigation. Police is suspecting that the attacker was known to the bride. We are trying to identify the attacker through CCTV footages said SP. Victims father is junior commissioned officer in the army. The family belongs to Uttarakhand and the groom is also a soldier in the army.
loading... 
 Comments