more videosWatch latest videos from THE TIMES of INDIALoading latest videos...Scientists have identified a drug that limits the death of brain cells due to stroke and helps repair the damage by promoting the birth of neurons. This finding provides further support for the development of this anti-inflammatory drug, interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1Ra in short), as a new treatment for stroke.PTI | Nov 26, 2016, 03.32 PM IST
 LONDON: Scientists have identified a drug that limits the death of brain cells due to stroke and helps repair the damage by promoting the birth of neurons.
 
 
 A reduction in blood flow to the brain caused by stroke is a major cause of death and disability, and there are few effective treatments.
 
 
 Scientists at The University of Manchester in the UK found that a potential new stroke drug not only works in rodents by limiting the death of existing brain cells but also by promoting the birth of new neurones (so-called neurogenesis).
 
 
 This finding provides further support for the development of this anti-inflammatory drug, interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1Ra in short), as a new treatment for stroke.
 
 
 The drug is already licensed for use in humans for some conditions, including rheumatoid arthritis.
 
 
 Several early stage clinical trials in stroke with IL-1Ra have already been completed in Manchester, though it is not yet licensed for this condition.
 
 
 The researchers showed that in rodents with a stroke there is not only reduced brain damage early on after the stroke, but several days later increased numbers of new neurones, when treated with the anti-inflammatory drug IL-1Ra.
 
 
 Previous attempts to find a drug to prevent brain damage after stroke have proved unsuccessful and this new research offers the possibility of a new treatment.
 
 
 Importantly, the use of IL-1Ra might be better than other failed drugs in stroke as it not only limits the initial damage to brain cells, but also helps the brain repair itself long-term through the generation of new brain cells.
 
 
 These new cells are thought to help restore function to areas of the brain damaged by the stroke.
 
 
 Earlier work by the same group showed that treatment with IL-1Ra does indeed help rodents regain motor skills that were initially lost after a stroke. Early stage clinical trials in stroke patients also suggest that IL-1Ra could be beneficial.
 
 
 The results lend further strong support to the use of IL-1Ra in the treatment of stroke, however further large trials are necessary, said Stuart Allan, professor at University of Manchester.
 
 
 The study was published in the journal Brain, Behaviour and Immunity.
 
 
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.RELATEDNeither mine, nor yours: Couples blend surnamesIndia hosts World Robot Olympiad for the first time100-year-old Antarctic logbooks show no change in sea ice coverCipla UK divests stake in Chase to AllerganNASA's Cassini set to fly closest ever to Saturn's ringsDino-killing asteroid punctured Earth's crust: StudyIndia becomes associate member of CERN'Vaccine against HIV infection closer to reality'