more videosWatch latest videos from THE TIMES of INDIALoading latest videos...Sushmi DeyIn a move that will give women more choices to protect their reproductive rights, the government will soon make injectable contraceptives available, introducing it first in medical colleges and district hospitals in a phased manner. | TNN | Updated: Nov 26, 2016, 01.34 AM ISTIt will be introduced first in medical colleges and district hospitals in a phased mannerIt is injected into the arm or buttock muscleThe drug has a female hormone that prevents release of the egg from the ovary(Representative photo)
 NEW DELHI: In a move that will give women more choices to protect their reproductive rights, the government will soon make injectable contraceptives available, introducing it first in medical colleges and district hospitals in a phased manner.
 
 
 Minister of state for health Anupriya Patel told the Lok Sabha the contraceptive would subsequently be introduced in sub-district hospitals, community health centres and primary health centres.
 
 
 Yes, the government proposes to make injectable contraceptives available to the public... It has been decided to introduce it...starting from medical colleges and district hospitals, Patel said in a written reply on Friday.
 
 
 Last year, the ministry had approved injectable contraceptives for women under the family planning programme after recommendations from the drugs technical advisory committee.
 
 
 The injectable drug, Deoxy medroxyprogestrone acetate, prevents pregnancy for three months.
 
 
 It is injected into the arm or buttock muscle. The drug has a female hormone that prevents release of the egg from the ovary.
 
 
 Injectable contraceptives will be the sixth form of contraceptive to be given free under the government programme. The government already offers five birth control options - female sterilization, male sterilization, IUD, condoms and pills - free of cost under the national family planning programme.
 
 
 Replying to another question, Patel said new interventions have been made by the government in family planning. She said the packaging for condoms has now been improved and redesigned to boost its demand.
 
 
 Other interventions include developing a 360-degree media campaign to generate demand for contraceptives while the sterilization compensation scheme has been enhanced in 11 high-focus states.
 
 
 She said the scheme for home delivery of contraceptives by ASHA workers at doorstep of beneficiaries has been expanded to the entire country.
 
 
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.RELATEDOne-time 60% penalty for voluntary cash disclosureDemonetisation effect: 'All gold sales to be under lensSupreme Court bans selling of fire crackers in NCR, directs Centre to suspend licenses of all sellersFugitives flying out of country must be brought back: SCCBI arrests Amar Mani Tripathi's son Aman ManiInjectable contraceptives to be made available to public soonNationwide campaign to open bank accounts for unorganised sector workersUPA government had left a terrible legacy: Arun JaitleyBan on fire crackers to continue till the quality of air improves: Supreme Court