NEW DELHI: New drugs are being developed by the government and its research councils for the prevention and management of vector-borne diseases through traditional medicines, the government said today. A drug called AYUSH PJ7 has been developed for Dengue by Central Council for Research in Ayurvedic Sciences (CCRAS), the Minister of State for AYUSH, Shripad Yesso Naik said in written reply to Lok Sabha. AYUSH SL has also been developed by this council for the treatment of filarisis. Early this year, the council had also developed an anti-malarial drug AYUSH 64. Additionally, several studies showing significant therapeutic effects through the use of Unani drugs against diseases like malaria, filarisis and kala azar have been carried out by Central Council for Research in Unani Medicines. The research body for Homoeopathy, Central Council for Research in Homeopathy, has also conducted clinical management studies on dengue, Japanese encephalitis and acute lymphadenitis due to filariasis. DON'T MISSany stories, follow us on TwitterFollow
Follow this section for latest news on PharmaceuticalsEmailRSSHave something to say? Post your comment NEW DELHI: New drugs are being developed by the government and its research councils for the prevention and management of vector-borne diseases through traditional medicines, the government said today. A drug called AYUSH PJ7 has been developed for Dengue by Central Council for Research in Ayurvedic Sciences (CCRAS), the Minister of State for AYUSH, Shripad Yesso Naik said in written reply to Lok Sabha. AYUSH SL has also been developed by this council for the treatment of filarisis. Early this year, the council had also developed an anti-malarial drug AYUSH 64. Additionally, several studies showing significant therapeutic effects through the use of Unani drugs against diseases like malaria, filarisis and kala azar have been carried out by Central Council for Research in Unani Medicines. The research body for Homoeopathy, Central Council for Research in Homeopathy, has also conducted clinical management studies on dengue, Japanese encephalitis and acute lymphadenitis due to filariasis.