THE HANS INDIA | 
				  
				Nov 26,2016 , 12:32 AM IST 
			
			
			
			
			
			 
			
			
 
 
 
		 
			Winter is amazing. Cold wind rushing past your face, warm and fuzzy oversised sweaters, a warm cup of hot chocolate, and so much more. What's not to love, right? Except one thing. Your skin. 
Winter brings along one curse which adversely affects our skin. One moment you're walking around in your boots, hiding yourself in your big sweater while drinking some hot coffee, and right in the middle of feeling winter sexy, you realize that dry skin is taking away much of your charm.
The good part, however, is that with a little effort, you can totally leave behind dry skin for a fabulously healthy skin that will help you maintain the winter sexiness. Here's a list of easy hacks to treat your skin better this winter 
Try to reduce the amount of time you spend in the hot shower
The idea of a warm, long shower does sound enticing but staying in hot water for too long will dry your skin and make it look flaky. Ten-fifteen minutes everyday should suffice.
Apply moisturizer Before having a bath
This will help you avoid the drying out experience after a hot bath and will keep your skin feeling soft.
Exfoliate with things available at your home to get rid of dead skin cells
Brown sugar, honey and olive oil are all you need to scrub your body with, and you'll have glowing skin in minutes!
You can use your toothbrush to scrub those dry lips
Yes, it does sound bizarre but you'll be surprised by how well it works. Lips are the first to dry up during winters. Just apply some vaseline or lip balm on a toothbrush and run it over your lips in round movements.
Listerine and vinegar are the perfect solution for your cracked heels
1/4 cup of Listerine and the same amount of vinegar when mixed with warm water makes for an excellent mixture to soak your feet into. It will wipe off your dead skin and give you soft feet
Nothing beats a face mask made with honey and raw milk
This is probably the most effective and the easiest face mask. Mix 2 tablespoons of honey in 6 tablespoons of milk. 
Massage it on your face and neck for 5 minutes and let it sit for about 20 minutes. Wash it off with lukewarm water and you'll be able to tell the difference yourself.
For soft hands, use a lemon and sugar mix
Hands suffer the most during winters. It's like our hands age overnight because of the dry skin. However, scrubbing your hands with lemon juice and sugar will soften them. It is, of course, still advisable to keep those gloves on for as much time as possible.
Please don't stop using your sunscreen!
Everybody loves a little sun during the winter but don't stop using your sunscreen. Apply it everyday before leaving home because your skin still needs protection against the harmful effects of the sun.		 
					
		
		
		
		 
					
		
						
			 			
 
			
				
			
			
			
					
			
									
					
			Tags:
			Winter Skin Care, Healthy Skin Care			
											
			
			
				
 
			
			
			
			
			
 
			 
			Stay updated on the go with The Hans India News App. Click for Android / IOS download it for your device.