R Ashwin took three second winnings wickets as England were reduced to 78/4 on Day 3. BCCI India got a firm grip of the third Test after excellent performances by their spinners with both bat and ball. R Ashwin and Jayant Yadav picked up four wickets between them in the final session after earlier playing a key part in India gaining a 134-run lead along with Ravindra Jadeja. England ended the day still 56 adrift and dreading what the Indian spinners could do to them on day four.Alastair Cook, who had a new opening partner in Joe Root due to the finger injury of Haseeb Hameed, was made to look all at sea by Ashwin before he was out bowled for 12. Moeen Ali was done in the air by Ashwin as he came down the track and played a tame chip to mid on. Jayant Yadav made it a better day for India when the in-form Jonny Bairstow was out caught-behind.Earlier in the day, India's lower order proved to be a decisive game-changer once again with Jadeja leading the way with a career-best knock of 90 while Jayant got his maiden fifty in Tests as India finished their first innings with 417 runs, a first-innings lead of 134. Jadeja fell 10 short of a hundred but stitched together useful stands with Ashwin first and later Jayant. Jayant continued the good work after Jadeja's departure, adding useful tuns with Umesh Yadav to push the game ever so slightly in India's control. England were left frustrated by the lower-order that countered their defensive lines efficiently.The process was started on the second evening with Ashwin and Jadeja adding 67 to take India within 12 runs of England's 283. The morning session was an important one for England to stay in the game, but it started on a poor note with Chris Woakes drifting onto leg with the first ball of the day, allowing Ashwin to start with a boundary. The all-rounder continued to bat within his strengths, crunching a couple of boundaries through the offside as well. The duo ensured that India took the lead without any trouble on the third morning, defying England once again. The visitors went into run-saving mode soon after with Ben Stokes probing away at an outside-off line.Ashwin finally took the bait after a crucial 72, slashing out and spooning a catch to point and ending a 97-run seventh wicket stand. The momentum though had shifted decisively in India's favour with the lead worth 18 at this stage.Jayant did not allow it to slip, and got off to a confident start, hitting James Anderson down the ground and through cover for boundaries. Jadeja, showing more restraint than usual against short balls and wide balls alike, punctured England's hopes with a fifty of his own before bringing out his trademark sword-swirl celebrations.Cook's plans were once again to bait wickets than go searching for them. Both Jayant and Jadeja were more than willing to play the patience game though. And with Jayant, Jadeja had a willing partner to get the quick singles which were important in countering England's defensive plans. With the pitch not causing enough alarms either, England were left seemingly toothless even as India firmly got back ahead in the game.After a prolonged time filled with copious amounts of leaves post the lunch interval, Jadeja finally took on Woakes with calculation. Operating to a 7-2 offisde field, Woakes was getting predictable with cutters outside off. He had given away just one run in his three previous overs. The 122nd over saw Jadeja walking across to sixth stump first and smashing a ball past mid on for the boundary. The second one was better with a cut shot piercing through a five-man offside squadron. The third ball was a repeat of the first. Woakes quickly called his captain and Anderson over for discussion that resulted in him bowling to the same field but from over the wicket. Jadeja responded by dancing down and across the track to pull and find the fence again. Those four boundaries quelled all of England's tactics and spirit. It had Kohli jumping out of his chair in elation. Jadeja, and the lead, neared a hundred now.But with those boundaries, a change of bowling also resulted. Jadeja sought a release off Rashid and stepped down in an attempt to clear the fence but ended up skying it high to long on where Woakes completed a well-judged catch. But, England's hopes of a quick end to the innings now was dashed by a calculated Jayant.Playing only his second Test, the 26-year-old showed game-awareness to milk the strike when partnering Umesh, and added 33 runs for the ninth wicket and in the process got to his maiden Test fifty. Umesh was dropped on 9 by Cook, denying Stokes another wicket. Stokes could have had Jayant too in the same over, for 51, but saw another edge flying past Bairstow who was caught wrong-footed. Continuing with the line for a 7-2 field, Stokes finally accounted for Jayant and had him cross-batting to mid on. In his next over he had Umesh edging to give Bairstow a record 68th dismissal for the year, while Stokes himself finished with a five-wicket haul.With a lead of 134 though, India were in a position to dictate terms. Kohli got his spinners on early in the innings and both Jadeja and Ashwin found enough purchase off the pitch to seed the doubts in the batsmen's head. Jadeja hit Cook on the pads with a big turner but India's first review went in the batsman's favour with the ball missing leg. In the very next over though, Cook took a review of his own to get an LBW decision overturned against Ashwin with the ball pitching outside leg. Ashwin was troubling the left-hander by testing both his inside and outside edges. With clever variations of pace, he finally had him playing outside the line to bowl him through the gate. The day ended on a high for India, and Ashwin, as the wily off-spinner trapped Ben Stokes LBW late in the day, with the decision coming in his favour after a review.Brief Scores: England 283 78/4 (Joe Root 36*; R Ashwin 3-19) trail India 417 (Ravindra Jadeja 90, R Ashwin 72; Ben Stokes 5-73, Adil Rashid 4-118) by 56 runs.