M RatnakarIt turned out to be a disappointing Sunday for India as both PV Sindhu and Sameer Verma lost in the singles finals of the Hong Kong Open Super Series in Kowloon. | TNN | Nov 28, 2016, 10.07 AM IST
 HYDERABAD: It turned out to be a disappointing Sunday for India as both PV Sindhu and Sameer Verma lost in the singles finals of the Hong Kong Open Super Series in Kowloon.
 
 
 World No.3, Tai Tzu Ying ended the nine-match winning streak of Sindhu with a convincing 21-15, 21-17 victory.
 
 
 Local shuttler Ng Ka Long Angus, survived a scare from Sameer to emerge as the first player from Hong Kong to win a Super Series crown. Angus did well to thwart the threat from the attacking Indian in the 50-minute contest 21-14, 1021, 21-11. After losing the second game the world No.14 worked very hard in the third game to end the dream run of the Indian, who was promoted to main draw from the qualifying rounds.
 
 
 Despite the loss, Sameer gave a good account of himself with a terrific performance in Hong Kong. After losing the first game against a steady player like Angus, Sameer upped the ante in the second game with some ferocious cross court smashes and powerful drives. Some of the half smashes from Sameer troubled Angus who lost focus after the fifth point in the game.
 
 
 Having lost the second game, Angus played with a lot of caution in the third. He took an early lead of 3-0 and by attacking the backhand side of Sameer increased the lead to 7-3 and then to 11-4. After the mandatory change of courts, Sameer came up with some good work around the net and managed to find some gaps in the rival's court. However, the lead was too big that the Indian failed to make any reasonable impact.
 
 
 Earlier, Tai completely outplayed Sindhu in the 41-minute contest. Known as the most craftiest shuttlers in the circuit, the pocket-sized girl is renowned for her defective drops and drives. It is this quality that troubd all the top shuttlers. Saina led all the top shuttlers. Saina Nehwal has lost all her six matches to Tai since 2014.
 
 
 Before the final Sindhu had a 3-4 record against Tai and had even defeated her in the pre-quarterfinals of the Rio Olympics. But on Sunday Tzu looked unbeatable. The height advantage of eight inches didn't help Sindhu as the Taipei shuttler looked in great touch from the first game.
 
 
 Tai, who won three major titles this year but lost quite badly to Sindhu in Rio, dominated the Indian in Kowloon.From 7-8, Tai zoomed ahead securing eight consecutive points to 15-8. After conceding such a big lead Sindhu found it quite difficult to reduce the deficit.
 
 
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.RELATEDHong Kong Open: It wasn't my day, says PV SindhuShuttler Lakshya Sen clinches gold in Senior India International SeriesPV Sindhu, Sameer Verma falter at final hurdle in Hong Kong Super SeriesLive updates: Sameer Verma in Hong Kong Open men's finalPV Sindhu loses in Hong Kong Open finalSuper Saturday for India at Hong Kong OpenSuper Saturday: Sindhu and Sameer enter Hong Kong Open finalCarolina Marin crashes out of Hong Kong Open