Not many inside the Stein Auditorium at the India Habitat Centre on Sunday evening anticipated that they would soon witness a captivating and moving session with Rio Paralympic winners Deepa Malik and Devendra Jhajharia during the Times Lit Fest here.TNN | Nov 28, 2016, 09.28 AM ISTDeepa Malik and Devendra Jhajharia were involved in a session during the Times Lit FestMalik is the first Indian woman to win a medal at the ParalympicsJhajharia is the first Indian to clinch two gold medals at the event(TOI Photo)
 Not many inside the Stein Auditorium at the India Habitat Centre on Sunday evening anticipated that they would soon witness a captivating and moving session with Rio Paralympic winners Deepa Malik and Devendra Jhajharia during the Times Lit Fest here.
 
 
 The crowd gave a standing ovation to both Malik and Jhajharia as they entered the auditorium. Malik, the first Indian woman to win a medal at the Paralympics, appeared confident, the kind of confidence which comes from fighting hard and winning one's battles. Jhajharia, the first Indian to clinch two gold medals at the event, appeared uncomfortable with the crowd standing up for him and quickly gestured that they sit down. The session was titled Go Limitless: The Paralympic Success at Rio and moderated by Rajesh Kalra.
 
 
 The trio then dissected how sports for the disabled in India continues to be a dark hinterland. In this season of demonetization... People gave way for me to amble up to the front of serpentine queues before ATMs and banks when they recognized me, said Malik. In my country, accessibility and infrastructure are two of the major problems. There are no toilets for normal people, forget having ones for the disabled. In addition to all of these, societal pressure and cultural assumptions would often kill individual potentials, she said.
 
 
 Training being an almost-insurmountable feat, Jhajharia sharpened a tree branch before he could finally get hold of a javelin to throw. During an event in my teens, one of the coaches asked my coach why he trained me, a handicapped boy, when there were lot others who could perform better, he said. He went on to win the championship. Malik took help from a tennis coach to strengthen her shoulder muscles. There was no one who could train a disabled person. Later, my husband and I kept experimenting together with different throw frames.
 
 
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.RELATEDGyan Singh named Indian bodybuilding coachOlympics: Tokyo 2020 venue options to be discussedRussian billionaire Usmanov re-elected as fencing presidentDessouky, Abouelghar set up All-Egyptian finalConor McGregor relinquishes featherweight beltPathanamthitta edge Thrissur in a nail-biter to enter men's finalKerala boys youth basketball champions after 30 yearsInspired Mueller sends home favourite Ghosal packingIlya Ilyin stripped of Beijing, London weightlifting golds