From theme, to acting skills of the protagonists, to the beautiful colours of the films, fans have adored the film for each of its elements. (Instagram/Alia Bhatt)
Gauri Shindes Dear Zindagi made over 32.5 crore in its opening week and the numbers only seem to get bigger. People have poured much love for the movie and the fans absolutely adore the chemistry between Shah rukh khan and Alia Bhatt. And not just that, they also love the theme of the movie which gives them a little sneak peek on how-to-deal-with-life. The movie talks about the complicated relationship of a young girl with her parents, how that leave a mark on her future relationships and how that threatens to jeaopardises her dream. All in all, the movie deals with problems todays youth faces. From theme, to acting skills of the protagonists, to the beautiful colours of the films, fans have adored the film for each of its elements. Here are 5 things to look out for in Gauri Shindes Dear Zindagi.
 The verstality she has displyed in Dear Zindagi has only added to her fan base. The actress has outperformed herself. (Bollywood Hungama)
1.Alia Bhatts Acting Skills
Alia Bhatts acting skills gathered appreciation from critics, co-stars and most importantly from her fans. She won our hearts in Highway, Kapoor and Sons, Udta Punjab and several other flicks. The verstality she has displyed in Dear Zindagi has only added to her fan base. The actress has outperformed herself.
 His character is that of a more passionate person who, in his own unconventional way helps his patient emerge out of inhibitions and learns to let go. (Bollywood Hungama)
2. The well thought character of Shah Rukh Khan
Shah Rukh plays a pychiatrist in the film but, not the types who only make their patients sit on a reclining chair and ask them to introspect. His character is that of a more passionate person who, in his own unconventional way helps his patient emerge out of inhibitions and learns to let go.
Also Read:Dear Zindagi LIVE updates: From opening weekend collections, celebrity movie reviews, songs, story, cast, to Twitter reactions, check out Shahrukh Khan, Alia Bhatt films public reactions
3. The songs
From Arijit Singh to Vishal Dadlani to Sunidhi Chauhan, the film has few of the best singers in the film. Alia Bhatt too, has given her voice to two of the songs in the movie Ae Zindagi Gale Lagale and evrybodys favourite, Love you Zindagi. The music and the lyrics both appeal to the people.
4. The colours of the film
The movie has used a lot of pastel colours in its settings and in the outfits of the characters which compliment the theme of the film and give it a very lively vibe.
 The colours in the film compliment the theme and give it a very lively vibe. (Bollywood Hungama)
5. Cinematography
The cinematography of the movie has made it even more fun to watch. Given the fact that Alia Bhatt is a cinematographer in the movie, this was probably one of best elements of the film.
 
Please Wait while comments are loading...