1/3
									 The first look of Dhanush and Gautham Menon's Enai Noki Paayum Thota was released on Sunday, 27 NovemberDhanush Twitter AccountThe first look of Dhanush's Enai Noki Paayum Thota has met with positive reviews.Dhanush Twitter AccountTake a look at the first look of Dhanush and Megha Akash's Enai Noki Paayum Thota.Dhanush Twitter Account
The first look of Dhanush and Gautham Menon's Enai Noki Paayum Thota was released on Sunday, November 27. A couple of posters featuring the lead stars were unveiled directly on social networking site Twitter.
Dhanush has varied looks in the three posters of the movie, which promises to be an action-packed entertainer. The first look has impressed audience, who are sharing good words about it on Twitter using hashtag - #ENPT.
The poster gives an indication that the makers are eyeing 2017 Valentine's Day weekend for its release. Megha Akash, who entered the film industry with Oru Pakka Kathai, will romance Dhanush in the upcoming movie.
Gautham Menon is directing Dhanush for the first time because of which a lot of expectations are riding on Enai Noki Paayum Thota. Baahubali actor Rana Daggubati will be seen in an important role in the film that is about the hero's fight to rescue a kidnapped girl.
Enai Noki Paayum Thota has Jomon T John's cinematography and Anthony's editing. The music director is yet to be announced. But the buzz says that two-time Oscar Award winner AR Rahman might compose music for the Tamil flick. Yuvan Shankar Raja is also in the race.
The shooting of Enai Noki Paayum Thota is expected to be wrapped up in mid December.
On the other hand, the makers have revealed that the teaser of Enai Noki Paayum Thota will be out on December 6 at 6.30 pm. It is likely to be unveiled in a grand event. Below, read tweets posted by celebrities on the first look:
Soundarya Rajinikanth:This looks great good luck hero sir Gautam.
Kalaippuli S Thanu:Stunning look,movie looks like a sure shot hit.Awesome work.
Radikaa Sarathkumar:@dhanushkraja @menongautham Now this is what I would call a bullet proof first look.