Written by Manoj Kumar R
							 | Bengaluru | 		
										
								 Updated: November 27, 2016 7:51 pm
								
								
												
												
												
											 Enai Nokki Paayum Thotta posters are out
The first look posters of Dhanushs much-awaited film Enai Nokki Paayum Thotta were released on Sunday on social media. Dhanush sports two different looks in the film, one clean-shaven and the other with a beard.
Recently talking to the media, director Gautham Menon had revealed that he has been very experimental with the upcoming Dhanush-starrer. He said that he has explored a new genre and tried a different storytelling method in ENPT. While the first half will be full of romance narrated mostly through songs, the second half will pack intense and high-voltage action scenes. That variation in the story can be seen in the first look posters. While in one look Dhanush seems charming and happy, the other one looks intense and edgy.
The film is the first collaboration between Dhanush and Gautham. The shooting for the film is going on in full swing and the makers have planned to release the film in the Valentine week next year.
Another poster of the film features Megha Akash and Dhanush and shows their romance. Baahubali actor Rana Daggubatis role, meanwhile, has not been revealed in the first look posters. He is said to be playing an important role in the film. Yuvan Shanker Raja has composed the music for the film and is produced by Gauthams home production banner, Ondraga Entertainment.
Enai nokki paayum thotta first look posters @menongautham #erangiadikkalaamnumudivupanniyaachu pic.twitter.com/wFtg1lZHOW
 Dhanush (@dhanushkraja) November 27, 2016
Dhanush and Gautham are both basking in the success of their recent films. While the actors political thriller Kodi, which was released on Diwali, became a blockbuster, Gauthams Achcham Yenbadhu Madamaiyada also hit a jackpot at the box office. Going by the expectations, Gautham is tipped to deliver his third hit film in the row after Yennai Arindhaal and AYM.
 The Indian Express Online Media Pvt Ltd