Choreographer-filmmaker Farah Khan says her friend and superstar Shah Rukh Khan is always open to experiment with his roles on the big screen.IANS | Updated: Nov 28, 2016, 03.49 PM IST
 Choreographer and filmmaker Farah Khan says her friend and superstar Shah Rukh Khan is always open to experiment with his roles on the big screen.
 
 
 
 
 Shah Rukh is always experimental with his role as an actor. He is the same actor who did a film like 'Kabhi Haan Kabhi Naa', 'Asoka', 'Chak De! India' and 'Swades' and other so-called commercially successful films, Farah said.
 
 
 I think media and critics are acknowledging this more these days than earlier and they praise a star when they do such experimental roles in films, added Farah, who has worked with SRK in hit massy films like 'Main Hoon Na', 'Om Shanti Om' and 'Happy New year'.
 
 
 Is she interested in making a content-driven film? She said, What makes you think that a successful mainstream film does not have content? It is a wrong perception. I would say that all my films have more content than a 'content-driven film'. It is not easy to make such films. I would never want to do a content-driven film with a box office life of Rs 20 crore.
 
 
 However, Farah agreed that sometimes in a Shah Rukh or Amitabh Bachchan-starring film, audiences tend to focus on the star rather than the story and perhaps that is how the differentiation happened.
 
 
 
 
 TOIFA 2016 : Technical Awards
 
Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.RELATED
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 First weekend collection of 'Dear Zindagi'Shah Rukh Khan finds Paulo Coelho kind and generousBipasha Basu looks adorable with her dad in this latest selfie!Pics: Alia Bhatt celebrates sister Shaheens birthdayDelhi filmwalas at Times LitFest Delhi say depiction of Delhi in films more real nowThere's no black money in film industry, claims Rajyavardhan Singh RathoreShraddha Kapoor's mother is okay with Shraddha-Farhan Akhtar link-upAnil Kapoor is a family manAlia Bhatt talks about the toughest part of shooting 'Dear Zindagi'